Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Wednesday, March 30, 2005 8:30 a.m.
The Court: Good morning.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Good morning.
The Court: Let's see, Mr. Mesereau, were you examining?
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me, Your Honor. My cross-examination is completed. I believe that --
Bailiff Cortez: Mike closer.
The Court: He said his cross-examination is completed. (Laughter.)
The Court: Go ahead, Counsel.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Good morning, Miss Bell.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Good morning to you.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would you please characterize the level of service -- is this on? Would you please characterize the level of service that you provided on the flights that you handled involving Mr. Jackson?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Cynthia Ann Bell: The level of service was A-1.
Mr. Auchincloss: First Class service?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And how attentive are you to the guests or the individuals who are guests of the client on the plane?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Extremely attentive.
Mr. Auchincloss: You interact with each one of them?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, I do.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you have -- I think I asked you previously, but is it fair to say that you were either interacting with the guests, the client, or you were working in the galley during the entire flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Can you repeat the question? I'm sorry.
Mr. Auchincloss: My question is, during the entire flight, are you always on your feet?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And during that entire time that you're on your feet, is it fair to say you're always involved in some level of service?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Are you in the galley at times?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, I am.
Mr. Auchincloss: Are you in the pilots' cabin at times?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Only briefly. Just to serve them meals on crew trays.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. But otherwise, you were attentive to the needs of everybody who's on that plane?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you personally prepare the meals?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Personally prepare? On certain flights, yes, we do. However, on Mr. Jackson's flights, we typically had them catered.
Mr. Auchincloss: You served hot hors d'oeuvres?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Dessert?
Cynthia Ann Bell: If required, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Meals?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: How many meals on a five-hour flight from Miami to Santa Barbara?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Depending on what we're serving, depending on the catering requests. I mean, I like to start with cold appetizers, to roll into hot appetizers, to roll into a salad, a soup, a main course, a dessert, finish with assorted usually sorbets in between, with a drink and beverage service throughout the entire duration.
Mr. Auchincloss: And on a flight like this involving Mr. Jackson and his guests, is there one person you're most concerned about pleasing?
Cynthia Ann Bell: You're always concerned with your lead passenger.
Mr. Auchincloss: And that would be Mr. Jackson?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: So if Mr. Jackson doesn't like something, do you change it?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Absolutely. In regards to catering?
Mr. Auchincloss: In regards to your level of service, anything that you do. If he tells you he doesn't like something, do you take care of it?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: If he wants something, do you take care of it?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you ever met Mr. Jackson outside your role as a server on one of these flights?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, sir, I have not.
Mr. Auchincloss: So would it be fair to say you've been always in a role of pleasing Mr. Jackson, pleasing -- making sure he's --
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes. As a cabin attendant. (Laughter.)
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. With that -- with that condition, would it be fair to say that you're in a position where you're always concerned about making Mr. Jackson happy?
Cynthia Ann Bell: As a cabin attendant, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes, we've got that, okay.
Cynthia Ann Bell: I'll lose my job over this. (Laughter.)
Mr. Auchincloss: You mentioned that you served an underage -- some underage girls, or an underage girl on this particular flight from Miami to Florida?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir. I was unaware that she was underage. I actually did -- I did I.D. her, and I saw a positive identification which reflected that she was 21 years of age.
Mr. Auchincloss: She wasn't underage?
Cynthia Ann Bell: It reflected that she was of age, 21 years of age.
Mr. Auchincloss: And were there two girls or one girl?
Cynthia Ann Bell: There were two girls on that flight.
Mr. Auchincloss: Uh-huh.
Cynthia Ann Bell: And they maintained that they were best friends and that they were on their way to Neverland Ranch.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you card both of them?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, I did not.
Mr. Auchincloss: Why not?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Because I assumed that -- because they were maintaining they were best friends that they were both of the same age. There was a younger boy on the flight who --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm not going to ask about the boy. I'm just concerned about the two girls right now.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Why didn't you card the other girl?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I was told that they were the same age.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Did she look 21, the other girl?
Cynthia Ann Bell: They both looked young, and that's why I I.D'.d them -- I I.D'.d the primary person who requested a cocktail.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So you just assumed the other one was 21?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did you mention this to Mr. Jackson, that you were serving these young ladies alcohol?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, I did not.
Mr. Auchincloss: And how did you -- what kind of glass did you serve them in?
Cynthia Ann Bell: In a tall crystal Waterford glass.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Was it fluted?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, sir, it was not.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Cynthia Ann Bell: It was cut crystal.
Mr. Auchincloss: You have previously mentioned in the grand jury that all flights kind of blend together for you.
Cynthia Ann Bell: I fly very often.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is that true?
Cynthia Ann Bell: The person -- the people that I fly, or the actual flights?
Mr. Auchincloss: In terms of your recollections.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Flights --
Mr. Auchincloss: You stated flights kind of run together so it's hard for you to remember, is that true?
Cynthia Ann Bell: They tend to, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: How -- do you have peculiar recollections of this particular flight over others? Is your memory better about this particular flight that we're talking about in this particular case over other flights that you've had?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Is my memory of the actual flight or --
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes. You've testified about a number of details about this flight --
Cynthia Ann Bell: I'm very clear about the flight. I'm actually very clear about the people that I fly. It's the locations, typically, that blend together. But -- because, you know, you're in New York a lot, you're in Florida a lot. I mean, you're a lot -- and it's typically the same sort of places that we go to.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Now, you mentioned that you didn't recall if Mr. Jackson was sleeping, but you don't think he did.
Cynthia Ann Bell: I'm certain that he was not sleeping.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. What time did this flight leave Miami?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I believe it was either a three or four o'clock launch or -- yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So it would have arrived in Santa Barbara -- taking into account five hours, it would arrive around eight or nine o'clock Florida time, true?
Cynthia Ann Bell: They're three hours ahead of us. You want Florida time --
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes, I said “Florida time”. Five hours. Three plus five, eight. Eight or nine?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I can't do the math.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So was it dark when you arrived in Santa Barbara; do you know?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I believe it was.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did you happen to notice whether other people slept on that flight, dozed or napped, anything of that nature?
Cynthia Ann Bell: The medical doctor that was on board did sleep. The child, the youngest child, slept on that flight for --
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Jackson's youngest child?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Just your best recollection.
Cynthia Ann Bell: That's my best recollection. Thank you.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is it possible that other people napped during the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I know it was a pretty busy cabin.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did people move around the cabin?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: A little bit, or a lot, or something in between. You tell me.
Cynthia Ann Bell: I wouldn't say unusually a lot. But the children were up and down and back and forth and the governesses were back and forth.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did many people change seats?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did some people change seats?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you have specific recollections of who changed seats and what manner the change took place, how that took place?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Definitely Prince and Paris. They were back and forth in the cabin, interactive with the entire cabin.
Mr. Auchincloss: So they would get up and move from their seat?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And I believe you testified that at one point they were in the banquet area; is that what you --
Cynthia Ann Bell: In the club seating.
Mr. Auchincloss: Club seating. Yeah. Okay. In the club seating with Mr. Jackson. You also testified that during the entire fright they were around Mr. Jackson, his children were around him?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you have a specific recollection of that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I do.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. If I may approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Miss Bell, I show you People's Exhibit 765. It appears to be a diagram of the plane. But you tell me. Can you identify that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, I can.
Mr. Auchincloss: What is it?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is the exact configuration of November-8-7-tango-delta.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is that the plane that you used on the flight we've been talking about involving Mr. Jackson and the Arvizos?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Could I have the Elmo on, Your Honor?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Oh, wait, I'm sorry. It might have been hotel-Charlie.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm not --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm not concerned about the name.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. She hasn't completed her answer.
Mr. Auchincloss: There isn't a question pending.
Mr. Auchincloss: But go ahead.
The Court: Just a moment. What does “hotel-Charlie” -- is that a plane designation?
Cynthia Ann Bell: It's the last tracking tail numbers of another one of our aircraft with a very similar cabin configuration.
The Court: All right. I will overrule the objection. Go ahead.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. So my question, though, is -- my concern is, is this a fair representation of the floor plan of the plane that was used on the flight from Miami to Santa Barbara with Mr. Jackson that we've been talking about?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir, it is.
Mr. Auchincloss: If I could have “Input No. 4”, Your Honor.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, I can't get this entire diagram on this -- on this screen, so I'm going to ask you to just help me out a little bit. Is there a pointer that we have? Ms. Bell, this is just a laser pointer.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: And if you hold it down, you can help us out with identifying some locations.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Thank you.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. I'm not going to ask you to mark on this exhibit, but I would ask you just to point with the laser, if you would, your best recollection of where Mr. Jackson was seated, if it's on this particular portion of it. Okay. Indicating in the club seating, the chair nearest the aisle, and in the center of the diagram, and I believe --
Cynthia Ann Bell: He actually sat there of most of the time. He went to the lav, and at that time, when he came back, he was seated here.
Mr. Auchincloss: Uh-huh.
Cynthia Ann Bell: And Prince and Paris both shared this seat.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, you mentioned, during most of the flight, in the grand jury that Gavin was next to him.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, was seated there.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So is that a fact, that during most of the flight that Gavin was seated next to Mr. Jackson?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you said that there is a divider between those seats that can be lifted up.
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was that divider down or up during that flight or did it -- let me maybe ask you -- rephrase that question. Was that divider moved during that flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: The only time it was moved was when Mr. Jackson used the lav.
Mr. Auchincloss: It went down?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And when he came back from the lav, did it go back up again?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, it did not. His children were seated there and it was open.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. What do you mean, “it was open”? It went back up or down?
Cynthia Ann Bell: The actual divider was -- the children were sharing the seat.
Mr. Auchincloss: Show me what we're talking about as far as the thing that goes down. Where is that located on this diagram? Okay. Just between the two seats?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That's correct. It's an actual armrest that divides the seats here.
Mr. Auchincloss: You have a specific recollection on this particular flight of the time that that armrest went down and up?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Do I have a specific -- yes, because he had to -- I had to lower it. And I remember it quite clearly because there was a hinge problem with that particular seat.
Mr. Auchincloss: Uh-huh.
Cynthia Ann Bell: And we had to lower it for Mr. Jackson to -- we had to -- well, there's also a divider here with cupholders.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes.
Cynthia Ann Bell: So both of those had to be lowered for him to get in and out. And also, like I said, the children wanted to sit next to him at that time.
Mr. Auchincloss: Uh-huh.
Cynthia Ann Bell: So instead of having the hindrance of the divider, we went ahead and lowered it.
Mr. Auchincloss: Oh, I see. Okay. All right. So going back to the time when he was -- you said there was a portion of the time that Prince and Paris were seated next to him.
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Then did they move again?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Prince was with his father most of -- a lot of the flight. Paris moved to help me bake cookies.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. My question is in terms of not whether they were with him, but whether they were seated in that seat. Did they move from that seat? After they sat in it, how much time did they spend in that seat? That's my question.
Cynthia Ann Bell: I'm not sure. I'm sorry.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. But is it still fair to say that Gavin Arvizo spent most of the flight in that seat seated next to Mr. Jackson?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Do you recall where Dr. Farshshian, or the doctor, I should say, was seated?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Where was that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: You'll need to move the diagram down in order to display his seating.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm moving the diagram --
Cynthia Ann Bell: Thank you.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm moving it towards the pilots' cabin; is that correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. We're now looking at the front of the airplane, and you're indicating in the seat that's closest to the -- I guess that would be the doorway into the aircraft; is that correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And that's in the upper right-hand portion of the diagram. All right. Did he move at all during the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes. He came back and chatted with me in the galley. But always -- typically always -- oh, no, actually, the only other time that he didn't return to his seat after the galley was, of course, to use the lav, but also he was chatting with everyone at the club seating on the credenza.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Cynthia Ann Bell: He sat himself there for a period of time.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. So you at times were back in the galley chatting with Dr. Farshshian, or the doctor?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you said at times you were back there baking cookies with the kids?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And is it fair to say at times you were in this area that's identified by four seats attending to the needs of those passengers?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: And there was a passenger in each of those seats?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: A passenger in every seat on this aircraft?
Cynthia Ann Bell: There may have been an open seat, but it's -- when you have that many people, it's a full house. I mean, it's --
Mr. Auchincloss: So possibly a seat open, but --
Cynthia Ann Bell: We don't, like, count our seats. I mean, as for emergency evacuations, we know where people are located amongst -- you know, in the aircraft. However, we don't actually -- it's not like airline style where you count the seats and the passengers.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Cynthia Ann Bell: So, I mean --
Mr. Auchincloss: No, that's fine. You've answered the question. And at times you're dealing with -- Diagram 765. You're dealing with people in the club seating area?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Sometimes you're turned in the opposite direction, you're dealing with people who are in the couch that's marked in blue on the lower left-hand corner?
Cynthia Ann Bell: On the divan.
Mr. Auchincloss: The divan. Is that true?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And at times you are turned, again, towards the rear of the aircraft where you're attending to the needs of the persons seated directly in the aft of the club seating, true?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct. Well, actually you're not really turned, because you're usually --
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. To the side?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Right.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And moving the diagram towards what appears to be the aft of the airplane, that shows the galley area; is that fair to say?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would you show us on the --
Cynthia Ann Bell: This open area here, with a --
Mr. Auchincloss: Where it looks to be marbleized?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct. That is our galley.
Mr. Auchincloss: So you've indicated on the diagram that the galley comprises both the port and starboard sides of the aircraft?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: So sometimes you're facing to the left of the aircraft, and sometimes you're facing to the right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: What's that little L-shaped section in the lower portion of the diagram, if you would?
Cynthia Ann Bell: This here?
Mr. Auchincloss: No, above that. Yes, that little rectangular square.
Cynthia Ann Bell: That's our sink.
Mr. Auchincloss: So sometimes you're over the sink dealing with whatever you need to clean, or get water, that type of thing?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That's correct. We don't do dishes on board, so we don't really use that sink a whole lot.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. So would it be fair to say at any given moment your attention and focus would be on any given one of those areas we've just identified?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: In terms of all the seating, the kitchen, the galley?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct. It's an open galley, and for specific reasons, that you can monitor your cabin while you're preparing.
Mr. Auchincloss: See who wants something?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Absolutely.
Mr. Auchincloss: Someone can get your attention if they need to?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you pay whatever visits you need to the lav area?
Cynthia Ann Bell: The lav is actually pretty busy. We keep catering -- a lot of catering in the baggage hold or in the lav. That right there is a closet. And then our other catering storage area is here.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. But, basically, my question was, that lav is for your use as well as everybody else's during the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: For everyone on the aircraft.
Mr. Auchincloss: And do you have any reason to go back in the baggage area?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, I do.
Mr. Auchincloss: What do you do back there?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Depending on whether or not I've stored -- I usually store my ice cream and my sorbets in the baggage hold.
Mr. Auchincloss: So sometimes you're back in that area that appears to have suitcases in it in the very aft of the diagram?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what's the area -- it looks like it might be a coat rack in the upper right-hand corner. Upper left-hand, excuse me. Do you see that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: In the lav or --
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you see what's across from the lav?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, that's a storage area --
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Cynthia Ann Bell: -- for coats. And I sometimes put catering there, and extra hand towels and that sort of thing.
Mr. Auchincloss: So sometimes your attention is to get something out of that area?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: You use that area during the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, we do.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Now, Mr. Mesereau asked you about whether or not Mr. Jackson would sometimes have vodka in a Coke can. Do you recall that portion of your testimony?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, I do. I do.
Mr. Auchincloss: So you would serve Mr. Jackson mixed alcohol drinks in a Diet Coke can?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Every beverage that was consumed by Mr. Jackson was in a Diet Coke can, that is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And I think you testified that that was your idea originally?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Before you came up with this idea, was Mr. Jackson secretive about his drinking?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: Assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Cynthia Ann Bell: I -- I don't know. The only time I flew him was with Pacific Jet and --
Mr. Auchincloss: That's what I'm talking about. When you flew with him on Pacific Jet.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Oh.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was he open about his drinking on Pacific Jet?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, sir, he was not.
Mr. Auchincloss: What makes you say that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Because I served him out of a -- I'm sorry, a -- a blue -- it was almost like a -- not a Tupperware thing. I can't describe it. I mean, it was sort of like -- I mean, it was a cup, but it wasn't transparent. It was sort of a Tupperware --
Mr. Auchincloss: Plastic cup?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Right.
Mr. Auchincloss: Anything else unusual about that cup?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did that cup -- was that something that was provided with the aircraft or something he brought?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Actually, that cup I believe was on the aircraft.
Mr. Auchincloss: And why did you use that cup -- well, let me back up. Did -- on that particular aircraft, or on that particular charter jet company, did you also use crystal to serve your clients alcoholic beverages?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you tell me why you did not use crystal to serve Mr. Jackson on those flights?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I don't remember why, I'm sorry. I don't remember why I did that that time.
Mr. Auchincloss: But there was something about your serving him those items that made you believe he wanted it served in the plastic cup rather than crystal?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Can I take a moment to think about this?
Mr. Auchincloss: Sure.
Cynthia Ann Bell: I really -- I mean, I don't remember why. Because I know I served children usually in plastic. I mean, you know, small children. Or they're like sippy cups, but I don't remember why.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was this like a sippy cup?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did Mr. Jackson ever object to being served in a plastic cup?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did he ever object to being served in a Diet Coke can?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you believe that that's how he wanted his beverage -- his alcoholic beverages served, in Diet Coke cans, and in this plastic cup when you did so?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I assumed that's how he wanted to be served.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did Xtra Jet adopt a policy of having Diet Coke cans of wine available for Mr. Jackson on any flight Mr. Jackson flew on?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: So even when you weren't flying, he was always served with a Diet Coke can, as far as you know?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes. I would give that information to our flight attendants.
Mr. Auchincloss: So you shared that with other flight attendants at Xtra Jet?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was this information ever -- did this information about serving wine in Diet Coke cans ever appear in writing on any Xtra Jet manifest, or order, or anything like that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, sir. We signed confidentiality agreements, and that would be something that would fall under a confidentiality agreement.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Speaking of that, the reason you gave for doing this was because you believe that Mr. Jackson wanted to keep his drinking a secret from his children?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Private from his children, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: He didn't want his children to know he was drinking?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: What makes you say that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Because he's a private person, and -- I have a lot of clients that don't drink in front -- don't present to drink in front of their children.
Mr. Auchincloss: My question is, what makes you think that Mr. Jackson didn't want his children to know he was drinking, specifically Mr. Jackson?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I don't know why he -- I don't know why.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. But you believe that was the reason?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did he ever talk to you about it?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was it ever talked about on the flight, that he was having -- that he had alcoholic beverages in his Coke can?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Was it ever talked to --
Mr. Auchincloss: Talked about openly on the flight, by anybody, that he's drinking?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: That he's drinking from a Coke can?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: So on this particular flight that involved the Arvizo children, was it ever mentioned that he was drinking wine from a Coke can?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, I believe you previously stated that he drank wine on this flight, about a bottle, and you opened up another bottle, that's correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: There were three bottles of wine opened. Two white and one red.
Mr. Auchincloss: And do you know how much of the second white bottle -- white wine bottle was consumed?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I do not. I know that it was opened, though.
Mr. Auchincloss: As far as vodka drinks, did you serve Mr. Jackson vodka drinks on that flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Mr. -- no, I did not serve Mr. Jackson vodka drinks on that particular flight.
Mr. Auchincloss: In the grand jury, did you testify -- when I asked you the question, “Do you recall if you served him any mixed drinks on that flight”, and you testified, “I did” --
Cynthia Ann Bell: Rum and Coke.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- do you recall saying that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And then I asked you what type of mixed drinks, and you said, “I served him vodka and Diet Coke”. Did you say that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I'm sorry, I believe it was rum and Diet Coke.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So you were just mistaken about the type of drink that he had?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So -- but you did serve him mixed drinks on that flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I served one mixed drink, which was not consumed. And I remember it being rum and Coke, because that is what the girls were drinking.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. So would anyone on that flight have any way of knowing that there was wine in that Coke can, or rum and Coke in that Coke can, unless they took a sip of it?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Calls for speculation; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did he ever explain to you why he was hiding his -- the fact that he is a drinker from his children?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: On the flight home from Florida --
Cynthia Ann Bell: Uh-huh.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- did Mr. Jackson become intoxicated? Do you understand the question?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I don't -- “intoxicated” as in like how --
Mr. Auchincloss: Did he show signs that he was inebriated or signs that -- signs of showing that he was somebody who had been drinking? Show any physical signs of it?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: In what way?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Well, he's a very nervous flyer, and he was just a lot more relaxed. By no means was he drunk. I was more worried about the two girls. I actually stopped pouring them alcohol.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. But didn't you testify in the grand jury that he was intoxicated?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And on this flight home, you noticed that this young boy, Gavin we've called him, you know who I'm talking about?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: You said that he was acting weird.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: What -- tell me a little bit about that. When was the first time you noticed that he did something that seemed weird to you?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Well, he was just incredibly rude. And I find that behavior unintelligent, and strange.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. My question was, when did you first start noticing that he's not being --
Cynthia Ann Bell: From the very beginning, the originating point of the flight.
Mr. Auchincloss: As the flight went on, was -- did he become -- well, tell me exactly what happened. What was it that made you say that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Upon arrive -- upon seating himself or situating himself in the cabin, he acted like I was his maid, basically, throwing a book bag at me, and, “I want this here”, and then, “I want this there”. And just very demanding. Just unusually demanding, unusually rude.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did his behavior get better as the flight went on?
Cynthia Ann Bell: The only time his behavior was acceptable was when he was listening to music.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Cynthia Ann Bell: He had a headset with some music that he was listening to.
Mr. Auchincloss: My question is, did his behavior get better, worse, the same? You tell me.
Cynthia Ann Bell: It stayed pretty much the same throughout the flight.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you said that he was -- now, you -- did you know this young man from any -- in any sense from outside the realm of flying this jet?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, sir, I don't watch T.V. typically, and I --
Mr. Auchincloss: So did you have any means of gauging whether this boy acted this way normally?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No. I would have no -- no way to gauge his behavior outside of on the aircraft.
Mr. Auchincloss: You said something about a food fight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: The boy was engaged in a food fight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And who was he engaged in that food fight with?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Primarily with the medical doctor. (Laughter.)
Mr. Auchincloss: And the doctor was fighting back?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Well, the medical doctor was sleeping at first, when he flung mashed potatoes at him. (Laughter.)
Mr. Auchincloss: And then what happened?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Then --
Mr. Auchincloss: It went back and fork?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Right. It was like crowd mentality. Everyone sort of joined in.
Mr. Auchincloss: More than just the doctor?
Cynthia Ann Bell: The girls. And it became a game, basically, on board.
Mr. Auchincloss: So it was playful?
Cynthia Ann Bell: The -- the initial flinging of the mashed potatoes, in my opinion, was not playful. Flinging mashed potatoes at a sleeping man?
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you have -- you mentioned that he was bragging about a watch. Tell me about that.
Cynthia Ann Bell: He came into my -- into my galley area requesting an orange soda, Sunkist orange soda. And he had two watches on his wrist, and was saying things like, “Look at what Michael bought me”. You know, “These are very expensive watches”. And, “He's my best friend”. And just --
Mr. Auchincloss: You didn't like that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Well, I -- I fly Fortune 500 people. I could care less what your watch costs.
Mr. Auchincloss: You weren't impressed by his watch?
Cynthia Ann Bell: He just goes on.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Did he mention anything about where he got that watch from?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Well, he did say, “Michael bought this watch for me”. And, “He'll buy me anything”. He was just -- just an odd bird.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you have any reason to believe that that is the way he normally acted or if something was causing him to act that way?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I have no idea. The only --
Mr. Auchincloss: You have no idea whether he normally acts that way?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I have no idea.
Mr. Auchincloss: When he was acting up, was Mr. Jackson seated next to him?
Cynthia Ann Bell: He was in my -- he was in my galley.
Mr. Auchincloss: No, in general. You said he was -- you know, in general, during this flight, you said he was acting weird. Did this behavior happen in Mr. Jackson's presence?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Some of the time.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did Mr. Jackson do anything to stop it?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Miss Bell, was he acting at all like he could have been intoxicated?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; asked and answered.
Mr. Auchincloss: I haven't asked that question.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Thank you. No.
Mr. Auchincloss: In the grand jury, didn't you say it was possible he was intoxicated?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Anything's possible. It could be possible.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you say that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I wouldn't know how to gauge it, because he acted the same throughout the entire trip.
Mr. Auchincloss: So it could be that he was reacting because he'd been drinking?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; and asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. When Mr. Jackson was seated next to Gavin, was he physically touching him?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Did they have physical contact?
Mr. Auchincloss: Was he physically touching him in any way?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, at times.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did Mr. Jackson, at times, cuddle with Gavin?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I wouldn't say “cuddle”. They -- he had his arm around him listening to music at times.
Mr. Auchincloss: So how do you define cuddling?
Cynthia Ann Bell: “Cuddling”? I guess I'd have to show you. (Laughter.)
Mr. Auchincloss: May I approach the witness, Your Honor? (Laughter.)
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So it didn't fit your definition of “cuddle”, but he did have his arm around him?
Cynthia Ann Bell: At times, yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did it seem odd to you that Mr. Jackson didn't do anything to stop this young boy from being what you said was rude?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Calls for speculation; no foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer. Do you want the question read back?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yeah, please.
The Court: All right.
Cynthia Ann Bell: It's just distracting when you guys like --
The Court: I know it is. That's why I'm asking you if you want the question read back.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Thank you.
The Court Reporter: Did it seem odd to you that Mr. Jackson didn't do anything to stop this young boy from being what you said was rude?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes. I -- because his children are so polite, I wasn't used to that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Does he intervene when his children --
Cynthia Ann Bell: Absolutely. They're very well disciplined and polite.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Thank you. I have no further questions.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Thank you.
The Court: Mr. Mesereau?
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning.
Cynthia Ann Bell: I'm sorry. (Laughter.)
Cynthia Ann Bell: Okay. What next?
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Gavin's mother was on the plane, was she not?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, she was.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Gavin's mother try to stop his rude behavior?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you find that odd?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I found that very odd.
Mr. Mesereau: And you did say that his rude behavior began from the moment he got on that plane, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And from the moment Gavin got on that plane, you never saw his mother ever try to stop his rude behavior, correct?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: How soon after Gavin got on that plane did the rude behavior start?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Immediately.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you say “immediately”, where was Gavin when the rude behavior began?
Cynthia Ann Bell: When he came up the stairs to enter the aircraft.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was the first rude thing he did?
Cynthia Ann Bell: He threw his book bag at me and started ordering me around the cabin as to where he wanted placement of his items.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you respond to that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Polite and efficiently.
Mr. Mesereau: Was his mother near him when he began the rude behavior?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And if you recall, where was his mother when Gavin began this rude behavior?
Cynthia Ann Bell: She entered the aircraft behind him.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it obvious to you that she could see his rude behavior?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Absolutely.
Mr. Mesereau: What's the next rude thing you recall him doing on the plane?
Cynthia Ann Bell: He was just very demanding throughout the entire flight, with wanting to get his needs met, whether it was, you know, more ice in his orange soda, to no cole slaw on his plate with his chicken, more mashed potatoes. It seemed like nothing -- his chicken wasn't warm. He -- you know, “I want a side of cole slaw. I don't want it on the same plate”. Just unusual things, like just very -- like, you can tell that, like, he was a newcomer to these sort of flights. Either you have people who are really polite or lovely, or you have people who are really demanding, and they feel like they need to be that way to make them feel important. I'm not sure why. But he was very demanding throughout the entire flight.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall where his mother was seated during the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Could you please tell the jury where she was seated?
Cynthia Ann Bell: She was -- if you pull down the diagram, I can show you exactly where she was seated.
Cynthia Ann Bell: (Indicating.)
Mr. Mesereau: So roughly how far away was Gavin during the flight when you saw him behaving in a rude manner?
Cynthia Ann Bell: He was seated here.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Cynthia Ann Bell: And he also was seated, at times, on the divan.
Mr. Mesereau: And the divan is where?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Here.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did he behave rudely when he sat on the divan?
Cynthia Ann Bell: He was engaging in conversation with the two girls. They had just gotten back from a shopping trip in, I believe it was New York, they were saying. New York.
Mr. Mesereau: And these are the girls that were drinking?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: So Gavin spent time with the two girls that were drinking?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Briefly, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have your eye on Gavin all the time while he was with the two girls that were drinking?
Cynthia Ann Bell: It was hard not to. He was so demanding.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he demand things of you while he was sitting with the girls that were drinking on the divan?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, he was engaged in a conversation about their shopping trip. And they were talking about going horseback riding at Neverland Ranch when they landed from the flight. They had had plans to go horseback riding or something.
Mr. Mesereau: And you saw Gavin talking to them about that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And you saw Gavin talk to them while they were drinking alcohol, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you told the jury every rude thing you can remember he did?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Well, there were so many. Let's see. Basically he was just -- I mean, very demanding when it came to customer service. There was also an incident in the lav where we had ran out of passenger napkins, and he made comments about that. Also, when I did my towel service - which you do continually throughout the flight - apparently his hot -- well, we do cold towels, because it was hot in Florida. And then when I served the hot towels, he was -- I mean, he wasn't rude, but, “Why isn't this cold? Shouldn't it be cold?” It's like, “No, it's meant to be hot, because you're getting ready for your second course”. So, I mean, just things of that nature.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long was this flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: About five hours.
Mr. Mesereau: Was he the only rude passenger on the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: So what he did stands out in your mind very vividly, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: It stood out very vividly.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you ever have your eye on his mother during the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you recall her doing?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Beyond the scope; relevance.
Mr. Mesereau: I don't think it's beyond the scope, Your Honor, at all, given his questions. He actually put this diagram up there.
The Court: Overruled. But the question is rather vague. “What do you recall her doing” is --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall seeing the mother seated in the seat that you've identified for the jury?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall ever seeing the mother get out of her seat?
Cynthia Ann Bell: She got out of her seat to use the lav, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall speaking to the mother?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes. She was actually very interactive with the other governesses.
Mr. Mesereau: So she was talking to the other governesses?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And I think you've described three of them, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did they seem like they were talking to her?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, it was a very friendly conversation that they were having.
Mr. Mesereau: And please tell the jury, if you can, where the governesses were seated.
Cynthia Ann Bell: One of the governesses was seated -- oh, can you -- thank you. I had Governess No. 1 here. Governess No. 2 here. The medical doctor. The mom. The head governess was seated most of the time on the divan.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, from what you recall, were the governesses in a position to observe Mr. Jackson?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Were they in a position to observe Gavin?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And were they in a position to observe Mr. Jackson's children?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said you saw Mr. Jackson's children walking around at times, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you see them walking around?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Back and forth throughout the aisles. And typically back in this area. They were playing back in this area here, where the credenza is and the divan. Yeah, mostly in that area.
Mr. Mesereau: And Mr. Jackson's children were well behaved, as far as you're concerned?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Lovely.
Mr. Mesereau: Had you flown with them before?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes. The third child wasn't there yet. But, yes, Paris and Prince, I'd flown with them once before.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you see Paris and Prince spend time with Mr. Jackson on this flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Very much so.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you see -- excuse me, let me rephrase the question. Describe what you saw in that regard.
Cynthia Ann Bell: They always had a lot of interaction together. Mr. Jackson -- I mean, he's -- he plays with his children, he really does. He's very interactive with his children. And so throughout the entire flight they were playing games and spending time with each other.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Mr. Jackson seem to be keeping an eye on his children during the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Absolutely.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you have a chance to observe what the governesses were doing on the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: They were governing the children.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you often see them looking in Mr. Jackson's direction?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes. It's a small aircraft. I mean, it's not a small aircraft, but it's small. It's not -- it would be like if -- if this entire row of jurors were on my aircraft. It's that small. I mean, you see everything that's going on. Except for the pilots. They're piloting the aircraft. I don't know what they're doing.
Mr. Mesereau: So it's very small and very compact, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it be accurate to say that, based on what you know about that aircraft and what you observed, that people were always looking at Mr. Jackson during the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, the prosecutor for the government asked you about the level of service. You said it was Level I, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And would you please define for the jury what Level I service is?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Level I service entails a lot of things. Paying attention to details. Making sure that the catering is correct. Making sure that the aircraft is clean, and all the particular movies, and all of the specific requests are met. As for food service -- you know, making sure that everyone is comfortable and fed, and properly looked after.
Mr. Mesereau: Is a lot of this work done in advance of the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: You said you were extremely attentive to Mr. Jackson during the flight, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you mean by that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Well, I made certain that, you know, all of his catering requests were together; made certain that, you know, the cabin was at the proper temperature; that, you know, his -- just that he was looked after properly.
Mr. Mesereau: Were the -- were you the only person on the flight responsible for Mr. Jackson's service?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You were always on your feet you said?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said something that you don't prepare meals on that particular flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Mr. Jackson tended to prefer KFC with all the fixings, so we would go get Kentucky Fried Chicken prior. Although the children, I was instructed by the head governess to have chicken breasts, grilled chicken breasts for them, fruit, a little different fare for the children.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, the prosecutor for the government tried to get you to say that possibly he could have been intoxicated, correct?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You never saw Mr. Jackson drunk on that flight, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: When you discussed the possibility of being intoxicated, what you were saying was that he calmed down and didn't seem as hyper and nervous as he normally would, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did anyone consume alcohol on the flight other than Mr. Jackson and these women?
Cynthia Ann Bell: The medical doctor.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Cynthia Ann Bell: I served the mom a glass of wine. I don't think she had drank it, though. None of the governesses drank. And of course not the pilots. Yeah, just the two girls -- the two girls, the medical doctor, the mom, and Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know what kind of wine you served the mom?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yeah. It was a --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object; relevancy.
The Court: Overruled.
Cynthia Ann Bell: It was a Chardonnay, Kendall Jackson, white wine.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Gavin with his mother?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Together?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Cynthia Ann Bell: They came on the aircraft together, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see the mom interacting with Gavin? Excuse me, something in my voice. Pardon me. Did you ever see the mom interacting with Gavin on the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Briefly.
Mr. Mesereau: And where -- approximately when was that, if you know?
Cynthia Ann Bell: When she went to the lav. She stood midway, I remember it clearly, because she was blocking my aisle. She -- oops. Uh-oh. She came out of the lav and was standing here talking to her son.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you find it odd that she had very little interaction with her son on the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you say anything about that to anyone?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Who did you discuss that with?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Lauren Wallace.
Mr. Mesereau: And where was Lauren Wallace when you discussed that with her?
Cynthia Ann Bell: We had a telephone conversation several days after the flight, so that I could brief her as to confidential matters, such as making certain that Mr. Jackson, on his next flight, had wine poured into a Diet Coke can, and just giving her more of a profile briefing on the specific passengers on board so that she could accommodate them on their passenger profile.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you assist the mom at all during the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Assist her -- yeah, I served her food and beverage.
Mr. Mesereau: Anything else you did for her, that you can recall?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you said something along the lines that you didn't use the sink very much. Do you remember that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you mean by that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: We don't wash dishes on Gulfstream aircraft, because it has a tendency of clogging the drain, and you have a problem with the flight that way. We typically use it to wash our hands, and to store -- I actually use my sink, at times, to store -- if it's going to be a lot of champagne and white wine, to chill my champagnes and my wines.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, the prosecutor for the government had you identify various instances where you might have been doing something other than look at Mr. Jackson, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: But how would you -- putting all this together, how would you characterize the level of attention you gave Mr. Jackson on that flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: The level of attention?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Cynthia Ann Bell: I think it was -- I think it was -- I mean, I think the flight went well. I gave everyone a lot of attention, but he is my lead passenger. I really was concerned about his needs at all times.
Mr. Mesereau: He's the one that you were most concerned about during the flight, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Absolutely.
Mr. Mesereau: And would it be accurate to say that no matter what you were doing, you were always looking at Mr. Jackson to see if he needed something?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Argumentative; sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you periodically looking Mr. Jackson's direction throughout that flight?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you do that no matter what activity you were involved in?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes. It's -- like I said, the aircraft is small. Like I can see the jurors. Like I can see No. 4 writing. I mean, even if I'm not looking at them, I can still see what they're doing. So it's pretty intimate, the cabin.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever complain about Gavin's behavior to Lauren Wallace?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Assumes facts; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained as to hearsay.
Mr. Mesereau: If I could just take one second, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last talk to any prosecutor about what you were going to say in court?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Um --
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk to any prosecutor last night?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Prosecutor last night, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. Did anyone for the government call you last night?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No.
Mr. Mesereau: No one discussed your testimony last night?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And before you testified yesterday, did you ever have any meetings with anyone for the government?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When were they, if you remember?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Do you mean phone meetings or personal meetings?
Mr. Mesereau: Let's start with personal meetings.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Personal meeting.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Cynthia Ann Bell: I met with an individual yesterday, just briefly, to review my grand jury testimony.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that in the morning?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And where was that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: It was here in -- well, not in this building, but in a separate building.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know who you met with?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes. The individual that is seated behind the District Attorney.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that Mr. Robel?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So he brought you a transcript of your grand jury testimony?
Cynthia Ann Bell: We -- he didn't bring me a copy, we just reviewed some of the items.
Mr. Mesereau: So he sat down with you and discussed what you had said before the grand jury, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: When was -- excuse me. Did you have any meetings with any representative of the government before yesterday?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I had some brief phone conversations with Mr. -- Gordon.
Mr. Mesereau: Prosecutor Auchincloss?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yeah. I can't say his last name.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did they take place?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Just some brief phone conversations. Most of that was about my travel arrangements and that sort of thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Prosecutor Auchincloss ever show you this particular diagram before today?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I believe when I was at the grand jury trial, there was a diagram similar.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Cynthia Ann Bell: I'm not certain if it was the same.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Prosecutor Auchincloss show that to you at that time?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Are there any other personal meetings you had with anyone for the government that you haven't described?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I think Sergeant Victor Alvarez.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And was that a personal meeting with him?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that, if you know?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That was prior to the grand jury meeting.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How about phone conversations, have you identified all the ones that you can remember?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Let me see. Victor Alvarez, Gordon. Shaundra, I think her name is. She's the witness coordinator. I've spoken with her several times.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Prosecutor Auchincloss ever discuss with you what questions he was going to ask you in this trial?
Cynthia Ann Bell: He made mention that -- some of the issues that may come up. I mean, he wasn't specific as to like, saying, “I'm going to ask you this specific question”.
Mr. Mesereau: Right. He just told you things that might be asked?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Of a topical nature --
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- does that sound right? And -- okay. And did you discuss with him what your responses would likely be if those topics would come up?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, I just said that I was going to tell the truth to the best of my recollection.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Okay. Thank you very much.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Thank you.
Mr. Auchincloss: Just a couple of questions.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Miss Bell, you mentioned the two girls were talking about a trip to New York that they had taken?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: How is your recollection about that conversation?
Cynthia Ann Bell: It was pretty good.
Mr. Auchincloss: Are you certain that they had both gone to New York together, these two girls?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is what they had maintained in their conversation.
Mr. Auchincloss: And they talked about what shopping they did?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were they specific about the things that they shopped for?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, sir, they were not.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you remember anything else about that conversation?
Cynthia Ann Bell: They were just saying that -- you know, that they were best friends, you know, that sort of conversation. They were quite pleasant, actually, the two girls.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did they act like they'd known each other for a long time?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Absolutely. And they maintained that they knew each other for quite some time, and that they were best friends, and they were looking forward to going horseback riding. They seemed -- I mean, really -- I mean, I was excited for them. I was excited to hear about their shopping. And they were -- they were quite nice, actually.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. You mentioned that there were movies on this flight; is that correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: We have the capability to show films, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were movies shown?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: And in response to Mr. Mesereau's questioning, you said that the -- that Mr. Jackson was not intoxicated on this flight; is that your testimony?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, I said that he wasn't drunk. He was intoxicated.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Thank you.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Thank you.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Thank you.
Mr. Auchincloss: I have no further questions.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: You may step down. Thank you.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Thank you. So I get to go, right?
The Court: Yes.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Thank you.
Mr. Zonen: We'll call Stan Katz to the stand.
The Court: Come forward, please. When you get to the witness stand, remain standing. Face the clerk and raise your right hand.
Message: STAN J. KATZ Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Stan Katz: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Stan Katz: Thank you. Stan, S-t-a-n; J, period; Katz, K-a-t-z.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Sir, what is your current occupation?
Stan Katz: I'm a licensed psychologist.
Mr. Zonen: And what is a psychologist?
Stan Katz: A psychologist is licensed by the State of California to perform assessment, treatment, psychotherapy of individuals, groups, families, to do clinical diagnostic treatment, and to treat, in a variety of ways, individuals who have psychological disorders.
Mr. Zonen: Let me start with your education and your experience --
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me. Your Honor, the witness appears to be reading something that I have not seen. May I request an opportunity to look at that?
The Court: Yes, you may.
Mr. Zonen: Is he? Or was he just looking down?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, he was.
Mr. Zonen: Maybe we should establish if he was reading from something.
The Court: He has something in front of him. Some papers there.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor. (To the witness) May I see this?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you. Just for the record, Your Honor, the witness appears to have a very thick file. I would like to use it during the cross-examination.
The Court: You may or may not, depending on what happens.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Thank you.
Mr. Zonen: May I proceed?
The Court: You may.
Mr. Zonen: Your education, please? What is your education?
Stan Katz: I received a bachelor's degree from California State University, master's degree from Boston University, doctorate from UCLA.
Mr. Zonen: And your doctorate is in what subject?
Stan Katz: Counseling psychology.
Mr. Zonen: When did you receive your doctorate?
Stan Katz: 1977.
Mr. Zonen: Are you a practicing psychologist at this time?
Stan Katz: Licensed clinical psychologist.
Mr. Zonen: And do you have a practice that you maintain?
Stan Katz: Yes, I do.
Mr. Zonen: What percentage of your workweek is devoted to an actual practice where you care for and see patients?
Stan Katz: I spend approximately 60 to 70 percent of my practice seeing patients and clients.
Mr. Zonen: And what do you do with the balance of your professional week?
Stan Katz: I spend 40 percent as a consulting psychologist on a television show called Starting Over.
Mr. Zonen: What is that?
Stan Katz: It's a show that helps women change their lives, women who have a myriad of problems that range from relationship disorders to life-threatening illnesses.
Mr. Zonen: And how long has this show been in series?
Stan Katz: This is the second year. I've been on it for one year.
Mr. Zonen: What do you do? Are you actually on the show, or are you a consultant to the show?
Stan Katz: I do both. I consult to the show, and I'm actually the on-camera psychologist helping these women to formulate plans to change their lives.
Mr. Zonen: And the nature of the problems that you deal with on this show are what?
Stan Katz: Very serious problems. They range from women who are battling cancer, to women who are dealing with grief and loss, relationship problems, career choices, problems that have stopped their lives that need to be sort of restarted, and they are with us for anywhere from 4 to 12 weeks.
Mr. Zonen: Are they actresses, or are they people with real problems, or are they just pretending to be people with problems?
Stan Katz: These are real people with real problems, who are assessed by psychologists before they come on the show. It's unscripted. And they live in a house together for this period of time, and they receive a lot of expert help, counseling, coaching, expertise, to help them change their lives.
Mr. Zonen: How long have you been working as a psychologist, practicing psychologist?
Stan Katz: Since 1978.
Mr. Zonen: And what types of experiences have you had as a psychologist?
Stan Katz: Well, I spent my early years as a psychologist working with substance abuse; working for the National Institute of Drug Abuse. And then went to Children's Hospital in 1975, where I spent five years. The first year was a general pediatric clinical internship. The second year was a specialty internship in child abuse. The third year was a fellowship in child abuse. And then I became a senior psychologist working with the Suspected Child Abuse Neglect Team, and what they call the Family Development Program, which was a treatment program for families of abused children and families who abuse their children.
Mr. Zonen: Is that your specialty, working with abused children?
Stan Katz: It's one of my specialties. I, after that, had done -- I spent a great deal of time working with the courts, with dependency court in Los Angeles, working in child abuse cases. And later on, became more involved with family law cases, seeing a lot of family law cases for Los Angeles County.
Mr. Zonen: All right. In your -- in conjunction with your work with the courts in Los Angeles County, are you appointed by the Court to do evaluations?
Stan Katz: In dependence court I was appointed by the court to do evaluations, yes.
Mr. Zonen: What does that mean, when you're appointed by the court, and what kind of evaluation?
Stan Katz: It means the Judge selected from a list of so-called experts, expert panel, to conduct a 730 evaluation, Evidence Code 730 evaluation, of a child and/or family in the dependence court.
Mr. Zonen: And how many times have you been appointed by the Court to do evaluations?
Stan Katz: In dependence court I was appointed over 600 times.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have other either appointments or where you've been selected by stipulation by both sides to be an expert or potentially an expert witness?
Stan Katz: Yes, in family court, in criminal court, I've been appointed about 700 times.
Mr. Zonen: Now, do you testify in all of those occasions?
Stan Katz: No, I do not.
Mr. Zonen: Do you testify on a small percentage of those occasions?
Stan Katz: Yes, I do.
Mr. Zonen: But you have testified as an expert witness previously, have you not?
Stan Katz: Many times.
Mr. Zonen: Do you consider yourself to be -- do you consider a specialty of your practice dealing with abused children?
Stan Katz: One of my specialties, yes.
Mr. Zonen: When you say “abused children”, do we mean more than sexually abused children?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: So what categories of abuse do we deal with in your specialty?
Stan Katz: Physical abuse, endangering, neglect, emotional abuse, and sexual abuse.
Mr. Zonen: Do you lecture as part of your practice?
Stan Katz: Yes, I do.
Mr. Zonen: And where, and how, and how often?
Stan Katz: Well, I have lectured over the past 25 years to groups arranged from judges, attorneys, the Bar Association, judges' college. Co-chaired two conferences with the dependency court, one of them with Judge Paul Boland. I have lectured through a lot of programs for the Los Angeles County Bar Association, and a variety of programs.
Mr. Zonen: Do you teach and have you taught?
Stan Katz: I taught at UCLA for approximately ten years.
Mr. Zonen: What subject?
Stan Katz: I taught research methodology, thesis seminar. Taught at Antioch University for three years, where I taught research methods, ethics, law and ethics, and human sexuality.
Mr. Zonen: In the course of your practice, have you --
The Court: Counsel, let's take our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Before you proceed, I want to give the jury some dates they can look forward to. (To the jury) Next Wednesday, the 6th of April, it will be dark. We will not be session. I have to go to a meeting in Los Angeles. And on April the 12th, which is the following Tuesday, we will only be in session in the morning, and I have a meeting in the afternoon. And then on April 20th, we will only be in session in the morning. I have a meeting in the afternoon. So, just to restate that, April 6th, we will not be in session all day, next Wednesday. The 12th we'll be in session only in the morning. And the 20th we'll be in session only in the morning. So you can go ahead and make alternate plans. All right. Counsel, you may proceed.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Zonen: Dr. Katz, who is Larry Feldman?
Stan Katz: Larry Feldman is an attorney in Los Angeles.
Mr. Zonen: And have you worked with Larry Feldman?
Bailiff Cortez: Microphone.
Mr. Zonen: Have you worked with doctor -- with Larry Feldman previously?
Stan Katz: I have on two occasions.
Mr. Zonen: Two occasions over what period of time?
Stan Katz: 18 years.
Mr. Zonen: Incidentally, this television show -- if I can backtrack just for one second.
Stan Katz: Sure.
Mr. Zonen: -- that you're involved in. Was this your first experience in working in television?
Stan Katz: No, I've been working with media since 1978 either as an advisor or on television films. I've done three book tours, so I was on a lot of shows because I was on tour for three books. I actually was a guest on numerous occasions talking about current topics. I did 23 episodes of another show a number of years ago.
Mr. Zonen: As a consultant?
Stan Katz: Consultant on camera. I was the co-chairman of the first international conference on children in the media, international conference in children in the media. So I've been working with media for approximately 25 years.
Mr. Zonen: All right. This television show is perhaps a little different, but not unusual for you?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
Mr. Zonen: I'll withdraw that question.
Mr. Zonen: This television show is not the first one you've been involved in?
Stan Katz: That is correct.
Mr. Zonen: Now, we were asking about Larry Feldman. Larry Feldman is an attorney in private practice in Los Angeles; is that right?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And you indicated that you had a couple of other associations with him?
Stan Katz: Yes, two in 18 years. Two others besides this one.
Mr. Zonen: And when were the other two cases?
Stan Katz: I understand -- the first one was in approximately 1987, although I don't have a distinct memory of that.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Stan Katz: And the second one was the Jordan Chandler case.
Mr. Zonen: And that was when?
Stan Katz: I don't have notes on that, but I think '93, '92.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. All right. In this particular case, were you retained by Larry Feldman to do some evaluations?
Stan Katz: I was retained by Mr. Feldman to conduct some interviews.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And what type of interview?
Stan Katz: Mr. Feldman came to me and said that --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us what your understanding of what you were supposed to be doing was.
Stan Katz: My understanding was that I was to interview three children regarding allegations that they have been either mistreated, abused, possibly molested, that they had participated in a television program without their consent, and that there were numerous allegations, and he wanted me help sort it out.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you conduct interviews?
Stan Katz: I did.
Mr. Zonen: And the interviews were with which children?
Stan Katz: With Gavin Arvizo, Star Arvizo, and Davellin Arvizo.
Mr. Zonen: How many interviews with each of these children?
Stan Katz: Two each.
Mr. Zonen: When did these interviews --
Stan Katz: Excuse me. Two with Gavin, two with Star, one with Davellin.
Mr. Zonen: Did you interview their mother as well?
Stan Katz: I did.
Mr. Zonen: When was she interviewed?
Stan Katz: She was interviewed on May 15, 2003, May 16, and June 11, 2003.
Mr. Zonen: So you had three separate interviews with their mother?
Stan Katz: I did.
Mr. Zonen: And is she Janet Arvizo?
Stan Katz: She is.
Mr. Zonen: The interview with the two boys, Star and Gavin, when were those interviews?
Stan Katz: May 29 and June 11, 2003.
Mr. Zonen: And how long, approximately, were those interviews?
Stan Katz: Each interview is usually approximately an hour, so they were probably an hour each on that day, each day.
Mr. Zonen: And you said you had one interview with Davellin Arvizo?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: When was that date?
Stan Katz: May 29, 2003.
Mr. Zonen: During the course of those interviews, did you discuss with either of the children the possibility of a lawsuit?
Stan Katz: I did.
Mr. Zonen: What was the purpose of that discussion?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection, to the extent it calls for hearsay.
The Court: The question was, “What was the purpose of the discussion”, not what was said. So I'll overrule the objection.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead.
Stan Katz: The purpose was, excuse me, to determine what the children's expectations were for talking to me, and what they thought would happen as a result of talking to me.
Mr. Zonen: At the conclusion of all of these interviews, did you contact Child Protective Services or the Department of Child & Family Services in Los Angeles?
Stan Katz: I did not personally contact them. However, I did go to Department of Children & Family Services on June 12th, 2003, and made an oral report to the Department of Children & Family Services social workers.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Following that, did you have an interview with Santa Barbara County law enforcement?
Stan Katz: The next day I did.
Mr. Zonen: Did they contact you or did you contact them?
Stan Katz: They contacted me, and left a message, and I returned their call.
Mr. Zonen: I have no further questions.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning, Dr. Katz.
Stan Katz: Good morning.
Mr. Mesereau: We haven't met, right?
Stan Katz: We've never met.
Mr. Mesereau: My name's Tom Mesereau and I speak for Michael Jackson. Now, you indicated that you had a -- I think the word you used was “association” with Attorney Larry Feldman that involved two cases; is that correct?
Stan Katz: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Has Larry Feldman personally ever referred any business to you?
Stan Katz: He referred a total of three cases to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Has he ever referred any clients or patients to you?
Stan Katz: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know for sure?
Stan Katz: Well, I've been in practice 25 years, and people -- I've seen hundreds of people, but I don't recall anybody telling me that they were referred by Mr. Feldman.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So your statement is that other than the two legal cases you referred to in response to the prosecutor's questions, Larry Feldman, to your knowledge, has never referred any patient to you?
Stan Katz: I don't recall, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether any firm associated with Larry Feldman has ever referred any patient or potential patient to you?
Stan Katz: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know?
Stan Katz: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Stan Katz: I don't know all the firms he's been associated with.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if any relative of Larry Feldman has ever referred any patients to you?
Stan Katz: I have no recollection of any relative of Larry Feldman referring a patient to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know any of Larry Feldman's relatives?
Stan Katz: I don't think I know any of Larry -- oh, I do know his wife. Is that a relative?
Mr. Mesereau: I think so.
Stan Katz: I'm not sure. Not blood.
Mr. Mesereau: You're not sure. All right. Do you know any cousins of Larry Feldman?
Stan Katz: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you're not sure?
Stan Katz: I'm not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know the name of any law firm Larry Feldman's ever been associated with?
Stan Katz: I know his current firm is Kaye, Scholer.
Mr. Mesereau: How do you know that?
Stan Katz: Because he told me he moved from his last firm to Kaye, Scholer.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did he tell you that?
Stan Katz: I think within the last year or so.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know a therapist named Leonora Hausner?
Stan Katz: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: How do you know her?
Stan Katz: I've known her for years through Beverly Hills Mental Health Center, through the Beverly Hills School District.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, is she related to Larry Feldman?
Stan Katz: I don't think she's related to him, no.
Mr. Mesereau: In no way?
Stan Katz: Not related to him, no.
Mr. Mesereau: When you say “not related to him”, what do you mean? Does she have any connection to Larry Feldman?
Stan Katz: I think she does. I think his daughter or son is married to her daughter or son.
Mr. Mesereau: Has she ever referred patients to you?
Stan Katz: Yes, she has.
Mr. Mesereau: She's referred a lot of them, has she not?
Stan Katz: I would say yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Is there any reason you didn't reveal that earlier?
Mr. Zonen: Revealed what earlier? Argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: How many patients has Leonora Hausner referred to you, to your knowledge?
Stan Katz: Probably in the last 25 years, maybe six to eight.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you think she's related by marriage to Larry Feldman?
Stan Katz: I'm not sure what the correct relationship is. I already said that I think her daughter or son is married to one of his children.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know for sure?
Stan Katz: I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: What do you know for sure?
Stan Katz: A lot of things. Not that.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object. Argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: I thought you accepted that. But --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Dr. Katz, please tell the jury what your understanding is, as you sit here today, about the relationship of Leonora Hausner to Attorney Larry Feldman.
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Asked and answered; and irrelevant.
Mr. Mesereau: I couldn't get an answer.
Mr. Zonen: I believe he answered --
The Court: Just stop talking, both of you. I'm going to allow that question. I'll have it reread for you.
The Court Reporter: Dr. Katz, please tell the jury what your understanding is, as you sit here today, about the relationship of Leonora Hausner to Attorney Larry Feldman.
Stan Katz: I think one of his children is married to one of her children. I believe that to be the case. I never met either one of them, so I believe that to be the case.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did you learn that information?
Stan Katz: From Mr. Feldman. Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: How long have you known about this?
Stan Katz: Probably two years.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you review any documents before you testified today?
Stan Katz: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And are those the documents in front of you?
Stan Katz: Yes, they are.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: May I see those documents, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
Stan Katz: Would you like to look at the file?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Stan Katz: Oh, here.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
The Court: And, Counsel, that's not how that's going to happen. You don't take his notes and then start questioning about them.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What would the Court prefer?
The Court: You asked permission to see them.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, okay.
The Court: I gave that permission. Now, take them back up there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. May I take a look at them again, Your Honor?
The Court: You may.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: Dr. Feldman (sic), when you interviewed the Arvizos, did you bill for your services?
Stan Katz: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Who did you bill?
Stan Katz: Mr. Feldman's office.
Mr. Mesereau: And how much did you bill for your services?
Stan Katz: A total of $4,800.
Mr. Mesereau: Did that bill comprise all of the interviews you described to the jury?
Stan Katz: Yes, it did.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was your hourly rate for those interviews?
Stan Katz: $300 per hour.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you been paid?
Stan Katz: Yes, I have.
Mr. Mesereau: By Mr. Feldman?
Stan Katz: By his firm at the time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what firm was that?
Stan Katz: I don't recall the name of the firm. He was one of the principals, so Feldman & Something, or Something & Feldman.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You mentioned you have a television show, right?
Stan Katz: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've been doing that for approximately a year?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And without giving the amount, you're certainly paid to do the show, correct?
Stan Katz: Not very well.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you are paid?
Stan Katz: Not enough. I'm paid, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: “Not enough” you say?
Stan Katz: Not enough.
Mr. Mesereau: How much would you like it to be?
Stan Katz: More. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: Which station is that show on?
Stan Katz: It's an NBC-Universal syndicated show.
Mr. Mesereau: And it's on once a week?
Stan Katz: It's on five days a week.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the jury that you were retained by Attorney Larry Feldman in the Jordie Chandler case, correct?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: That was a lawsuit that Attorney Larry Feldman filed against Michael Jackson, correct?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: That was in approximately 1992, correct?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were paid money to work with Mr. Feldman on that case, correct?
Stan Katz: Well, I was paid for my time and services, not to work with Mr. Feldman.
Mr. Mesereau: But he's the one that got you involved, true?
Stan Katz: He's the one that retained me on the case.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did he pay you a retainer on that case?
Stan Katz: I don't think he paid me a retainer. I think he paid me for the time I spent on the case.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Okay. You've been in contact with him ever since, correct, on a periodic basis?
Stan Katz: I don't remember talking to Mr. Feldman -- I don't remember talking to him the last ten years. I don't think I've been in contact, but I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you certainly -- you don't recall?
Stan Katz: I don't know if he ever called or I ever ran into him, but I don't remember doing anything professionally with him for the last ten years.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I'm not asking if you did something professionally with him.
Stan Katz: Contact?
Mr. Mesereau: I'm asking if you've had any contact of any kind with him before he referred the Arvizos to you.
Stan Katz: Well, I'm trying to explain that. I have no social relationship with him. I don't go to dinner with him or never been to his house. I don't have lunch with him, dinner with him. I may have had a phone call about something. I may have talked to him in the ten years. I don't have any other recollection, though.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did he call you about interviewing the Arvizos?
Stan Katz: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: And is it because of his phone call that you interviewed the Arvizos?
Stan Katz: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you communicate with Attorney Larry Feldman about those interviews?
Stan Katz: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you communicate with Attorney Larry Feldman while those interviews were being conducted?
Stan Katz: Are you talking about during the actual interview, you mean like telephonically?
Mr. Mesereau: Between the first -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. Between your first meeting with the Arvizos and your last meeting with the Arvizos, did you discuss with Larry Feldman the content of any of those interviews?
Stan Katz: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times?
Stan Katz: I had a meeting with him in between the two sets of interviews on June 5, 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: That's one meeting?
Stan Katz: One meeting, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever talk to him on the phone before or -- or after that meeting about your interviews with the Arvizos?
Stan Katz: I believe I had a brief conversation with him prior to setting up that meeting.
Mr. Mesereau: After the interviews were finished, did you contact Mr. Feldman and discuss those interviews?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when was that?
Stan Katz: On the day of June -- June 11.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that a phone conversation?
Stan Katz: Yes, it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever have a personal meeting with Attorney Larry Feldman to discuss those interviews?
Stan Katz: Yes, on June the 5th.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you bill Mr. Feldman for the time you spent in that meeting?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you bill Mr. Feldman for the time you spent on the phone?
Stan Katz: I don't believe so. I think it was a five-minute phone call to set up the meeting.
Mr. Mesereau: You indicated you met with authorities in Santa Barbara at some point, correct?
Stan Katz: I never met with them in person.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever talk to them on the phone?
Stan Katz: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And was the subject of that phone call your actions with the Arvizos?
Stan Katz: My interviews. The subject was my interviews, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall approximately when that phone call was?
Stan Katz: I think it was June 13, 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: And who was that phone call with, if you know?
Stan Katz: Detective Paul Zelis.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know whether or not that phone call was being recorded?
Stan Katz: I did not know.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point you learned it had been recorded, correct?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you learn that?
Stan Katz: I learned that when I saw the transcript of the -- of the phone call.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you get a copy of the transcript?
Stan Katz: Mr. Zonen of the D.A.'s Office gave me the transcript.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that?
Stan Katz: I do not remember.
Mr. Mesereau: And you reviewed that transcript before you testified today, correct?
Stan Katz: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And you made notations on the transcript, correct?
Stan Katz: Are you asking me if I made notations that are on the transcript right now, the copy you have?
Mr. Mesereau: Well, I don't have your copy. You have your copy now, right?
Stan Katz: Yes, I have a copy. There are notations on that transcript that I did not make, and there are some notations I made last night on the transcript for my own edification. But there are notations on the transcript which are not my notations.
Mr. Mesereau: Whose notations are they?
Stan Katz: I understand Mr. Zonen's. And when he made the copy of the transcript, he gave me, I think inadvertently, his copy where he had made notations.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. Did you ever discuss Prosecutor Zonen's notations on the transcript with Prosecutor Zonen?
Stan Katz: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever tell him you have a copy of a transcript that appears to have his notations?
Stan Katz: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Is today the first time, as far as you know, he's ever heard that you have his transcript with his notations?
Stan Katz: No, because he actually told me, he said, “Those are my” -- recently he told me, “Those are my notations in case you're asked”. And I said, “Oh”.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you spoke to the Santa Barbara sheriffs, you talked about your discussions with the Arvizos, correct?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Who was involved in that call besides you? Was it one officer, or more than one, to your knowledge?
Stan Katz: To my knowledge, it was just Detective Paul Zelis.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that an unexpected call, as far as you're concerned?
Stan Katz: No, it was not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was it not unexpected because you had already contacted authorities yourself?
Stan Katz: I had contacted Department of Children & Family Services in this face-to-face meeting. And because I felt obliged to make this report, I told Mr. Feldman that I had to report this to Santa Barbara County authorities. And he told me that he would find out which authority to report this to, because he wanted to be sure it was confidential. And so I then heard from -- excuse me, I then heard from Detective Paul Zelis, who called me. And I returned the call.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling Detective Zelis that the Arvizos came to you in this lawsuit?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember referring to the lawsuit more than once?
Stan Katz: Probably so.
Mr. Mesereau: You're not sure?
Stan Katz: Well, I think I referred to it more than once, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Your belief that there was a lawsuit came from Attorney Larry Feldman, true?
Stan Katz: No.
Mr. Mesereau: He's the only attorney you had spoken to about the Arvizos at that point, correct?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You're not a lawyer, correct?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: It was your belief, when you talked to the Santa Barbara sheriff, that Mr. Feldman was filing a lawsuit for the Arvizos, correct?
Stan Katz: It was my belief that he was thinking about filing a lawsuit, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, does Attorney Feldman still advise the Arvizos?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as speculative or hearsay.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Stan Katz: I don't know. I don't know that.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last talk to Attorney Larry Feldman about this case?
Stan Katz: Yesterday.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he call you or did you call him?
Stan Katz: He called me.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you telling the jury that in that call you did not discuss with Attorney Feldman in any shape or form this case?
Stan Katz: I never said that. I said he didn't tell me that he was advising the Arvizo family.
Mr. Mesereau: Did --
Stan Katz: I don't think he's advising the Arvizo family.
Mr. Mesereau: In your phone call with Attorney Feldman yesterday, did you, Dr. Katz, discuss this case?
Stan Katz: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Before yesterday, when was the last time you spoke with Attorney Larry Feldman about this case?
Stan Katz: I don't have the dates here, but within the last couple weeks, we talked about the schedule, when we were going to both be appearing, and we reviewed our notes together.
Mr. Mesereau: And you reviewed your notes with Attorney Larry Feldman regarding this case?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Would that include the file you have with you today?
Stan Katz: Well, he didn't review my file. However, we went through the process just so that we both could refresh our memories of things that weren't written down.
Mr. Mesereau: How long was that discussion?
Stan Katz: About a half hour.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did it take place?
Stan Katz: In his office.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you go to his office?
Stan Katz: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: So you both discussed what you were going to testify to in this case, correct?
Stan Katz: No. We both talked about exactly our recollections of how this case progressed, that's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Before that meeting, when was the other -- excuse me. Let me rephrase that. You talked to him on the phone yesterday about the case, right?
Stan Katz: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You met with him at the meeting you've just described about the case?
Stan Katz: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet with him before that about this case?
Stan Katz: Not since June 5th of 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: And have you ever talked to him on the phone since June 5th, 2003, about this case?
Stan Katz: Yes, I have.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times, do you think?
Stan Katz: Two or three.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you telling the jury you don't think Mr. Feldman is providing any advice to the Arvizos at the moment?
Stan Katz: I'm telling the jury I don't know whether he is. He did not tell me he's providing advice to the Arvizo family.
Mr. Mesereau: And in your phone calls and meetings with Attorney Feldman, you never asked him?
Stan Katz: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever suspect during those phone calls or in those meetings that he might be representing the Arvizos?
Stan Katz: What I do know, he has told me that he hadn't spoken, I think, to the family in a while. That's all he said to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you're aware that -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. You've been involved in your career in a number of lawsuits involving allegations of child abuse, correct?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: How many lawsuits involving allegations of child abuse do you think you've been involved in as a professional psychologist?
Stan Katz: In all venues? Do you mean family law? Criminal?
Mr. Mesereau: Sure.
Stan Katz: Dependency?
Mr. Mesereau: Sure.
Stan Katz: A couple thousand maybe.
Mr. Mesereau: And have you been involved as a professional psychologist in any civil lawsuits involving allegations of child abuse where people wanted monetary damages?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And were they primarily in Los Angeles?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you aware that if a child is abused or claims they were abused they have until the age of approximately 20 to file a lawsuit?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you're aware that, what is called a statute of limitations, meaning when the time period begins to commence --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as exceeding the witness's expertise.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had any experience, Dr. Katz, in the relationship between criminal proceedings and civil proceedings when it comes to allegations of child abuse?
Stan Katz: Well, I'm not sure how to answer that, except to say that I'm currently working a number of civil cases regarding victims of the Catholic church, alleged victims of the Catholic church. Those cases, some may end up being criminal, some may be civil, depending on the statute of limitations, as you pointed out.
Mr. Mesereau: Have some of them concerned criminal proceedings?
Stan Katz: My work does not concern criminal proceedings with those cases.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever testified in a criminal case before today?
Stan Katz: Yes, I have.
Mr. Mesereau: How many criminal cases have you testified in before today?
Stan Katz: Less than half a dozen.
Mr. Mesereau: Were they primarily in Los Angeles?
Stan Katz: Yes, they were.
Mr. Mesereau: In any of those criminal cases, were you also involved in a parallel civil proceeding?
Stan Katz: No.
Mr. Mesereau: In any of those criminal cases, were you involved in a parallel divorce proceeding?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, a divorce proceeding is a civil proceeding, correct?
Stan Katz: Yes, it is.
Mr. Mesereau: And what you're saying is that you were involved as a professional psychologist in both a civil divorce proceeding and a parallel criminal proceeding involving the same parties and issues, correct?
Stan Katz: “Parallel” is the problem. Do you mean simultaneously, or one after the other? Sometimes I've worked a family law case and then was called into criminal court on the same case six months, a year later.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And it's your understanding that if you have a conviction in a criminal case, you'll automatically win the civil case?
Mr. Zonen: I will object. Exceeding the scope of his expertise.
Mr. Mesereau: I didn't finish my question.
Mr. Zonen: Well, we know what it is.
The Court: You may finish the question.
Mr. Mesereau: Given your experience in the criminal courts and in parallel proceedings in the civil courts where the same parties are involved --
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as to parallel proceedings in a civil court, as to whether it's a civil or a family law court.
The Court: He hasn't finished his question.
Mr. Mesereau: Given your experience, Dr. Katz, in criminal actions involving allegations of child abuse and parallel civil actions involving allegations of child abuse where the same parties are involved, you're aware that if there is a criminal conviction, one would automatically win a civil suit for damages, true?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; exceeds the scope of his expertise.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: The prosecutor asked you about your experience in the area of child abuse, correct?
Stan Katz: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You have published articles in that field, true?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately how many articles you have published in that field?
Stan Katz: Well, I think you're talking about -- professional articles, I think there's only one or two. If you're talking about books, there's three books. And there's probably a number of interviews or articles, some of which may be editorials. So I'm not sure how to answer the question. But certainly a number of publications.
Mr. Mesereau: Let's just take articles --
Stan Katz: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: -- that don't reach the form of a book. How many articles do you think you've published in the area of child abuse?
Stan Katz: Well, I'm not sure. Maybe three or four.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've published in the Los Angeles Times, correct?
Stan Katz: As far as I know, the New York Times, Los Angeles Times, they syndicate out to other newspapers, so I know some of the articles I wrote were way beyond; you know, in other markets also.
Mr. Mesereau: You published an article called “Stop the Witch Hunt For Child Molesters”, correct?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: In that article you dealt with your concern about false allegations of child molestation, correct?
Stan Katz: Absolutely.
Mr. Mesereau: You also published a book called “The Codependency Conspiracy”, correct?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you published it with a woman named Amiee Liu, correct?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And in that book, you talked about false allegations of child molestation, true?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You said that lawyers have told you as many as 40 percent of child molestation allegations are false, correct?
Stan Katz: I'm not sure what context you're talking about, but certainly, in certain venues, that is true.
Mr. Mesereau: You said that lawyers charged with turning these allegations into convictions estimate that as many as 40 percent of the accusations are insubstantive, correct?
Stan Katz: I assume you're reading from my book.
Mr. Mesereau: I am.
Stan Katz: And I'm not sure what precedes it. But if I said it in my book, I will stand by it, that's true.
Mr. Mesereau: You said, “Nowhere is our lack of objectivity more evident than in our reactions to reports of child molestation”, right?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You said, “The nation's courtrooms are inundated with new allegations of abuse every day”, right?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You said, “But many of the lawyers who are charged with turning these allegations into convictions estimate that as many as 40 percent of the accusations are insubstantive”, true?
Stan Katz: Well, it's true. I'd have to give a context, but it's certainly true. It may be even higher than that in some cases, in some venues.
Mr. Mesereau: And what venues were you talking about?
Stan Katz: Particularly family law and divorce cases, high-conflict divorce cases, where allegations are made that one parent sexually molested a very young child under the age of usually four.
Mr. Mesereau: When you were interviewing the Arvizos, did you do any background check into their involvement in any other litigation?
Stan Katz: I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever check into any allegations of domestic violence in the Arvizo family?
Stan Katz: I didn't check into any of these allegations. I did not investigate any of these allegations other than -- excuse me, other than to interview the parties. So I did not do any investigation of any allegations.
Mr. Mesereau: In your book, “The Codependency Conspiracy”, you talked about a witch hunt mentality with respect to false allegations of child abuse, true?
Stan Katz: That's true.
Mr. Mesereau: And you didn't just talk about divorce cases, you talked about the McMartin Preschool case in Manhattan Beach, California, true?
Stan Katz: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And you mentioned that in the context of false allegations of child molestation in a criminal courtroom, true?
Stan Katz: Well, I'm not sure if I said that in the book or not. I didn't memorize it. But I was talking about the McMartin case, which ended up being not only in the criminal court, it was in dependency court because there were children of the teachers who were involved in dependency court, and I think there were civil suits also.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you involved in that case in any professional way?
Stan Katz: Yes, I was.
Mr. Mesereau: How were you involved?
Stan Katz: I was the director of training and professional education at the Children's Institute International, and that's the agency that initially interviewed all the McMartin children.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you involved in that case for a number of years?
Stan Katz: Well, my involvement was that I was director of the program. And Kee McFarland, who was the woman who interviewed the children, actually worked under me. But I was not -- I did not directly interview the children's parents. I did interview -- my involvement with the McMartin case was, I did do assessments. I was asked by the Department of Children & Family Services to assess the children of the alleged perpetrators to see if they had been molested. Other than that, I had very little involvement directly with the case.
Mr. Mesereau: Is it your understanding that that was perhaps the longest and largest criminal case in the history of Los Angeles County?
Stan Katz: I think it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Going further into your book, you discuss cases where you've had false allegations of molestation where no one ever turned up any physical evidence to support the molestation, correct?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you talk about situations where you think children, for whatever reason, believed they were abused, but really aren't or haven't been, true?
Stan Katz: I talk about young children under the age of four who believe they were molested, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And in your opinion, they had not been, correct?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You discuss situations where therapists have taught children that they were traumatized when, in fact, they were not, correct?
Stan Katz: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you talk about situations where, despite what therapists have said about the existence of molestation, courts have gone against them, true?
Stan Katz: I'm sorry, where therapists have said they believed children were molested and the courts have not ruled --
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Stan Katz: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And has that been your experience as well, as an expert?
Stan Katz: My experience has been that there are people who are falsely accused and who get convicted, and there are people who are falsely accused that get acquitted, and there are people who get acquitted who did the deed. So I've had all that experience.
Mr. Mesereau: You talked about children in abuse cases who are often scarred for life, not by the abuse, because it didn't occur, they're scarred by what you call the recovery process, true?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what you were saying was, in situations where there has been no abuse, but a child is convinced that there has been and is put through a process of therapy to deal with the abuse that never happened, they can be hurt, true?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You talk about situations where children can have thoughts essentially given to them by parents or therapists that convince them they've been abused when there is no abuse, right?
Stan Katz: Yes. But I was talking about young children under the age of four. Pre-verbal children.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't limit it to that in your book, did you?
Stan Katz: I'm not sure what you're reading, exactly, from, but I'm certainly talking about pre-verbal children. And I think there's a -- a comment made about young children under the age of five or so.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know where the comment is?
Stan Katz: I haven't looked at the book in a long time, but --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Stan Katz: I'll have to look at it later.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You talked about a number of situations where parents consistently told their children they've been abused, and the children believed it, and in your opinion there had been no abuse at all, right?
Stan Katz: And that specifically is regarding young children. We're talking about children under the age of five years.
Mr. Mesereau: You are aware, that there can be all kinds of motivations for false claims of molestation, correct?
Stan Katz: Certainly there's a possibility of all kinds of claims and reasons.
Mr. Mesereau: You're aware that alleged victims of molestation often sue for millions of dollars in civil court, correct?
Stan Katz: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You talked about the reactions of victims of child sexual abuse, correct, in your book?
Stan Katz: If you say so. I don't remember exactly what I talked about in that book, but --
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you essentially said there can be all sorts of varying reactions, assuming it really occurred, right?
Stan Katz: I suppose, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you said that some experience physical or emotional trauma directly related to molestation, right?
Stan Katz: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: And some exhibit none of those symptoms, correct?
Stan Katz: I need to back up. You're reading something. Are you talking about victims who have been abused?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. I'm limiting this question to people who actually have been abused, not the people you discussed who were the victims of false accusations. Okay?
Stan Katz: Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: With limiting my question to people who have actually been abused, you indicated some experience -- appear to experience no real change in their behavior, correct? They have no nightmares, they have no --
Stan Katz: You're talking here about --
Mr. Mesereau: Let me just finish the question, if I can. If I can.
Stan Katz: Sorry. Excuse me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You discussed the fact that, in your opinion, victims of sexual abuse generally fit into one of three categories, true? Do you remember that? I could show you the book if you'd like to take a look at it.
Stan Katz: It would be helpful, since I wrote it about 12 years ago. It would certainly refresh my memory. I could have brought a copy, but --
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at your book?
Stan Katz: Well, I did for about three seconds.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you have a chance to look at the three categories you identified in your book with regarding what a real victim of child sexual abuse might show?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Some will have nightmares, correct?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Some will have no nightmares, right?
Stan Katz: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Some will act out their version of the abuse, correct?
Stan Katz: Some act out sexually, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And some will not act out sexually at all, right?
Stan Katz: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Some will suddenly become aggressive, right?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And some will not be aggressive at all, right?
Stan Katz: Some will be withdrawn, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Some will be depressed, correct?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And some won't be depressed at all, right?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Some will demonstrate an aversion to their own body, right?
Stan Katz: Some have problems with body image and aversion to any of their sexual organs, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And some don't have that at all, correct?
Stan Katz: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would agree that it's difficult -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. In this area, it can be difficult to determine if certain characteristics really relate to sexual abuse or not, correct?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: If you are examining a child, for example, where there's an allegation of abuse, and you learn, through whatever form, that the child is exhibiting aggressive behavior, it's difficult to know if that aggressive behavior is really the result of actual sexual abuse, right?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And in your evaluation of a potential victim in a situation like this, one of the things you'd want to know would be, did that child exhibit aggressive behavior before the alleged abuse occurred, correct?
Stan Katz: Well, I have to answer that by saying, if I was evaluating forensically this case, I would want to know a great deal about this family, about the alleged perpetrator, about all the data, multi-source data I could get. If I was just interviewing the children to hear what they had to say so that I could make a determination whether or not I'd be obligated to make a report, it would be a different issue.
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Stan Katz: I'd be the gatekeeper, the beginning of the process, if I felt there was reason to make a report, and then further investigation/evaluation would have to be conducted by professionals.
Mr. Mesereau: And the quantity of investigation you just articulated which you state would be necessary to really determine if sexual abuse occurred you didn't do in this case, right?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. In your book, you talk about the situation where abuse is intertwined with other serious family or psychological problems, correct?
Stan Katz: Are you talking about interfamilial, within-the-family abuse?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Stan Katz: I think that's where you're going with that. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what you said was evaluating and understanding real sexual abuse is made more difficult if the family you're investigating has other serious family or psychological problems, true?
Stan Katz: I'm not sure of the context there, Mr. Mesereau, because when I -- I think I was talking about sexual abuse within a family, where the alleged perpetrator is a member of the family, you have complications from a number of variables.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, wouldn't you -- excuse me, let me rephrase it. Let's suppose the alleged perpetrator is outside the family, right? And let's assume, because we're just dealing with a hypothetical, that the family itself is characterized by serious emotional and psychological problems dealing with domestic violence, divorce, allegations within the family of molestation, alleged acts, multiple acts, of violence going over years, alleged -- unusual actions to obtain money so the family can survive, a lot of emotional conflict between parents. You would agree that all of those issues could complicate the question of whether or not a child in that family was truly abused by someone else? Could complicate it?
Stan Katz: It's possible.
Mr. Mesereau: If you had -- excuse me. If, during the course of your investigation as a professional psychologist and expert in this area, you discover that within the family unit, there have, over the years, been various allegations of molestation within the family unit, that would complicate your ability to evaluate whether or not someone had been molested by a third party, true?
Stan Katz: Well, I don't know if it would complicate it. It would certainly be data I would want to look at.
The Court: Counsel, just a moment.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor. (Brief interruption.)
The Reporter: Thank you, Judge.
The Court: Sorry, Counsel.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: You indicated in your book, Dr. Katz, and we were alluding to this before, that if abuse is intertwined with other serious family or psychological problems, you need to focus on these problems separately in treatment, correct?
Stan Katz: That makes perfect sense to me. I'm not sure I wrote exactly that, or said that, but that makes sense.
Mr. Mesereau: I can show you the paragraph.
Stan Katz: Well, I believe you.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what you said was, you recognize that different problems may have little to do with each other, or may have a lot to do with each other, right?
Stan Katz: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you say the abuse that's claimed may be very insignificant in a situation where you discover serious psychological and family problems within the family unit, true? May be.
Stan Katz: I'm not sure. The first part of the question I missed. You said abuse may be inconsequence --
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah. You indicated that the abuse suffered --
Stan Katz: Are you quoting? Because if you quote, then it's easier for me to refer to. I'm not sure if you're paraphrasing or interpreting.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me just read you a paragraph.
Stan Katz: Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. “If the conflict you feel about your abuse is intertwined with other serious family or psychological problems, you need to focus on these problems separately in treatment, recognizing that the different problems may have little to do with each other, and that the abuse you suffered may have been relatively insignificant”. Do you remember reading that?
Stan Katz: Writing it.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me, writing it.
Stan Katz: I do remember writing it, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Correct me if I'm wrong, you were suggesting that, in a situation where you have an allegation of abuse that sounds quite serious, if you, as a therapist, start to investigate the domestic situation in that family, and you, as a therapist, find all sorts of other psychological problems that may not be related to the abuse, there are situations where, once you investigate those problems and treat those problems, the actual claim of abuse may turn out to have been exaggerated, correct?
Stan Katz: I think that totally misinterprets what I was saying.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Stan Katz: What I was saying is that people have a myriad of complaints in their life, and that many adults wish to connect their current problems to a past event. So, for example, a 40-year-old woman who can't find a relationship, a healthy relationship, says she was molested at age five and that's why she can't find a healthy relationship today, that she needs to look at what other things are stopping her and preventing her from having a healthy relationship today. I think that was directed at that kind of person, not directed at a therapist and how to evaluate or treat an alleged allegation of sexual abuse.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, but you were talking about treating sexual abuse when you wrote that paragraph, true?
Stan Katz: I think I was talking about what I just said; that people like to blame lots of problems on traumatic events that happened in their lives. And they need to sort out that some of these events have nothing to do with actually what they've become or the problems they have.
Mr. Mesereau: In fact, in many ways, the book that you wrote called “The Codependency Conspiracy” was a form of self-help book, correct?
Stan Katz: It is a self-help book.
Mr. Mesereau: And you talk about people who are perpetual victims, correct?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you basically talk about how, as they view themselves as a perpetual victim, they are essentially saying that they are powerless over their problems and don't have to take responsibility for them, right?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you basically were saying that's not the right way to live your life, right?
Stan Katz: What I was saying, it's a debilitating and immobilizing way to live.
Mr. Mesereau: Essentially you said that people who are perpetual victims are not really --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as exceeding the scope of the direct examination.
The Court: That's sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember, you wrote the following: “I do not think that a parent whose hand lingers momentarily while diapering his or her child belongs in the same category with convicted child pornographers or pedophiles, yet many therapists and self-help groups lump the victims of these different perpetrators together and treat them all as if they've been equally traumatized”?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as exceeding the scope of direct examination.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You indicated in response to the prosecutor's questions that you had worked on a panel of psychologists, correct?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was that with dependency court?
Stan Katz: First in dependency court and then in family law.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, when you're on a panel of psychologists in dependency court, you are routinely appointed to handle a dependency court case, correct?
Stan Katz: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you're paid by the county, right?
Stan Katz: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long did you say that you had done that?
Stan Katz: Over ten years.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So over ten years you were on that dependency court panel, you never knew when you'd be called to work on a dependency court case, right?
Stan Katz: I didn't know exactly, that's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, were you doing that at the Edelman Courthouse on the 10 freeway?
Stan Katz: I started doing it at the old courthouse at first, I think criminal, and then it was over on Sixth Street before the Edelman Courthouse.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, would you agree that in dependency court, you often find false claims of molestation?
Stan Katz: Who's “you”?
Mr. Mesereau: Anybody.
Stan Katz: Well, are you talking about did the judges find it? Did I find it? Who's who?
Mr. Mesereau: Well, when you wrote in your book that, “Lawyers who prosecute molestation cases tell us that approximately 40 percent may be false”, were you referring to dependency court?
Stan Katz: Well, I'm not exactly sure which lawyers you're referring to or I was referring to at this point, but in general, the 40 percent figure comes out of research on mostly young children, preschool kinds of cases, family law cases. It does not come out of the research on children who were allegedly molested by a -- by someone outside the family, and it doesn't come out of research about children over the age of approximately five or six.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you done research in that area?
Stan Katz: Just clinical experience.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you had experience with false claims of molestation involving children over six?
Stan Katz: Well, when you say “experience”, have I evaluated cases where someone thought the claims were false?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Stan Katz: Or where the judge determined they were false? Which would you like?
Mr. Mesereau: Let's start with the first example.
Stan Katz: Well, in every case there's two sides.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Stan Katz: So there's always someone who doesn't believe and someone who does believe. So I've been involved with many of those cases, in criminal and family law and in civil cases. I have been involved in cases where people were acquitted in a criminal, and they were convicted. And I've been involved in cases where monetary damages were paid to victims and where no monetary damages were paid to victims, and family law cases where the judge made a finding that molestation did not occur, or the judge made a finding that there was inappropriate touching, fondling, some kind of sexual abuse.
Mr. Mesereau: When you wrote in your book that 40 percent figure, saying prosecutors had told you that 40 percent of the accusations are insubstantive, you never limited it in the book to children who are six or younger, did you?
Stan Katz: I don't think so. I have to look at the source data. But it's in the back.
Mr. Zonen: Could I see the book, please?
Mr. Mesereau: I can get you a copy.
Stan Katz: It's available at amazon.com. (Laughter.)
Mr. Zonen: Doesn't say “prosecutors”.
Mr. Mesereau: It says, “Lawyers who are charged with turning these allegations into convictions”.
Mr. Zonen: Judge, I'm going to object as misstating --
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, I'll read it, if the Court would like.
Mr. Zonen: Well, I'm concerned about the prior question asked. He used the word “prosecutors”.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll restate it. I'll restate the question.
Mr. Mesereau: Dr. Katz?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You know that these prosecutors are all lawyers, don't you?
Mr. Zonen: Which prosecutors is he referring to? Objection. Vague; argumentative.
Stan Katz: I have --
Mr. Zonen: There's an objection.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll withdraw the question.
Mr. Mesereau: Dr. Katz, have you met with any of these prosecutors at any time?
Stan Katz: Yes, I have.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last meet with any of these prosecutors?
Stan Katz: I met with Mr. Zonen, yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you aware that he is a lawyer?
Stan Katz: I'm aware that he is lawyer.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you aware that he's a lawyer paid by the government?
Stan Katz: I'm not sure who he's paid by, but I assume he's paid by the county or someone.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever met Mr. Sneddon?
Stan Katz: I have.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you aware that he's a lawyer?
Stan Katz: I assume he's a lawyer if he's in his position.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you aware that he's a lawyer paid by the government?
Stan Katz: I assume he's paid by the county.
Mr. Mesereau: And have you met Mr. Auchincloss, who's directly to my left?
Stan Katz: Yes, I have.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you aware that he's a lawyer?
Stan Katz: Yes, I'm aware that he's a lawyer.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you aware that he's a lawyer paid by the government?
Stan Katz: Paid by the government.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you aware their jobs as prosecutors are to seek convictions?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: When you said in your book, you referred to lawyers who are charged with turning these allegations into convictions, you were referring to prosecutors?
Stan Katz: Well, I actually was referring to cases that I already talked about, the young children, preschool cases, the family law cases --
Mr. Mesereau: You were --
Mr. Zonen: The witness ought to be allowed to answer the question.
Mr. Mesereau: Sure. Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: I apologize. Go ahead.
Stan Katz: Family law cases where either they were trying to get some kind of finding in court, sustain a petition or criminal conviction, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Dr. Katz, you know that you can't convict anyone of anything in a family law court, right?
Stan Katz: No, but you can make a finding.
Mr. Mesereau: But you don't convict in family law court, true?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Based on your experience, the only place you get convictions is criminal courts, right?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Argumentative; and beyond his scope of expertise.
The Court: Sustained on argumentative.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, Dr. Katz, you said that 30 percent of your work is currently involved with television; is that right?
Stan Katz: Approximately 30 to 40 percent, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said that you've been practicing since 1978; is that correct?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And I believe you told the prosecutor for the government that you've been involved in other T.V. projects, correct?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what were they?
Stan Katz: Well, starting out in the early years, in the late '70s, I was an advisor on a number of television movies that had to do with either child abuse or psychological issues. Did a number of those kinds of movies. I was a frequent guest on news shows talking about current psychological topics. I -- when I did my three books, I, of course, did book tours, where you appear on numerous shows, including “Oprah” and those kind of shows. I have appeared as a panelist on T.V. on certain topics. And have appeared as a guest to work with family dysfunction on talk shows and other television shows.
Mr. Mesereau: When you did your -- excuse me, you did a book tour to promote the book “Codependency Conspiracy”, did you not?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you appear on television as part of that book tour?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know how many times you appeared on television as part of the book tour?
Stan Katz: I would have no idea.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you were on television, did you talk about false claims of molestation?
Stan Katz: I don't think so. That was just a small part of the book. I don't remember specifically talking about that, but certainly it could have come up. And this was 1991, I think, so I don't have a distinct memory of that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk about people who act as if they're perpetual victims?
Stan Katz: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you talk about your belief that there are ways to treat people who consider themselves perpetual victims?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; exceeds the scope of the direct examination.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You indicated that you interviewed the three Arvizo children and the mother, right?
Stan Katz: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever interview the father?
Stan Katz: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever investigate anything about the father?
Stan Katz: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's because you never really investigated the family other than the interviews you conducted, right?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, when were the dates of those interviews?
Stan Katz: Mom was May 15, May 16, June 11. Gavin and Star were May 29, June 11. And Davellin was May 29.
Mr. Mesereau: So the first interview was May 15th, correct?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: The last interview was June 11th, correct?
Stan Katz: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you told the prosecutor for the government that at some point you went to the Department of Children & Family Services about the Arvizos, correct?
Stan Katz: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And was Mr. Feldman with you?
Stan Katz: Yes, he was.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your belief at the time that Mr. Feldman was representing the Arvizos?
Stan Katz: Yes, it was.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you and Mr. Feldman visit the Department of Children & Family Services for the first time to talk about the Arvizos?
Stan Katz: June 12th, 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: And you had a meeting at that department, correct?
Stan Katz: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: That department is in Los Angeles, right?
Stan Katz: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever have a second meeting at that department about the Arvizos?
Stan Katz: I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the only meeting you had?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, was it just you and Larry Feldman at that meeting?
Stan Katz: And an associate of his. I don't recall his name right now.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, when you attended that meeting with Mr. Feldman, did you know whether or not he was a friend of someone named Jamie Masada?
Stan Katz: I'm sorry, who was a friend?
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Feldman.
Stan Katz: I had no idea.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know Jamie Masada?
Stan Katz: Never met him.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know Attorney Bill Dickerman?
Stan Katz: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: And how do you know Attorney Bill Dickerman?
Stan Katz: He was present at the meeting that I had with Mr. Feldman on June 5th of 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: Was he the only person at that meeting other than you and Mr. Feldman, to your knowledge?
Stan Katz: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Who else was at that meeting?
Stan Katz: Mr. Feldman's wife, Jo Kaplan.
Mr. Mesereau: Was anyone else at that meeting?
Stan Katz: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the first time you met Attorney Bill Dickerman?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know anything about Bill Dickerman's relationship with Jamie Masada?
Stan Katz: He told me yesterday in the --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as hearsay.
The Court: You may answer the question “yes” or “no”.
Stan Katz: Would you repeat the question, please?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. Do you have any knowledge of Attorney Bill Dickerman's relationship with someone named Jamie Masada?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did your knowledge come from?
Stan Katz: Mr. Dickerman.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he tell you that they're friends?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object, Your Honor, as hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you say you talked to Bill Dickerman yesterday?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he call you or did you call him?
Stan Katz: No, we sat in the holding area upstairs together.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss the case at all with Mr. Dickerman?
Stan Katz: Not really.
Mr. Mesereau: Not really?
Stan Katz: Well, we talked a little bit about times and where we were going to stay last night and coming back here, and we talked about everything from the weather, to soup, to nuts. Not very much about the case.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was your meeting with Mr. Dickerman and Mr. Feldman the first time you had met Mr. Dickerman?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: After that meeting, did you have any further contact with Mr. Dickerman before yesterday?
Stan Katz: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you communicated with him by letter at any time since that initial meeting?
Stan Katz: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So the only attorney you've ever communicated with about this case is Attorney Larry Feldman, right?
Stan Katz: No. The attorney sitting in front of us that we've named.
Mr. Mesereau: The attorneys who are paid by the government?
Stan Katz: Paid by the government, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. To get convictions. Okay, all right.
Mr. Zonen: Is that a question?
Mr. Mesereau: I withdraw that.
Mr. Zonen: If it is, I'm going to object to it as argumentative.
Mr. Mesereau: I withdraw that. I withdraw that.
The Court: Objection's sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have any knowledge of Larry Feldman filing any claim against Los Angeles County?
Stan Katz: I read that, I think, on The Smoking Gun, or somewhere on the Internet, but he's never said that to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, after your meeting at the Los Angeles Department of Children & Family Services that you have described, did you have any other meetings with Mr. Feldman about this matter?
Stan Katz: Other than what I've described?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Stan Katz: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you and Mr. Feldman ever jointly appear with anyone in the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Office to discuss this case?
Stan Katz: No.
Mr. Mesereau: After the meeting you had at the Department of Children & Family Services, you spoke to the Santa Barbara Sheriffs at some point, correct?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that?
Stan Katz: I received a call from Detective Paul Zelis on June 13, 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: That was the first contact after the DCFS meeting you had, right?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you have any knowledge of Attorney Larry Feldman contacting the Santa Barbara Sheriffs at any time after the DCFS meeting?
Stan Katz: I have no knowledge of that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss that possibility with him?
Stan Katz: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss with Attorney Feldman whether or not he had talked to Mr. Sneddon after the DCFS interview?
Stan Katz: I don't think we ever talked about that.
Mr. Mesereau: Never?
Stan Katz: I don't have any recollection of that at all.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you've never heard anything about that as you sit here today?
Stan Katz: I'm sorry, about Mr. Feldman talking to Mr. Sneddon?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Stan Katz: Yes, I think that, as I said before, prior to the call to -- from Detective Zelis, I believe that Mr. Feldman called the D.A.'s Office. I don't know if he personally talked to Mr. Sneddon or not.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, your understanding of any contact Mr. Feldman had in this case would have come from Mr. Feldman, correct?
Mr. Zonen: Contact with whom? Objection; vague.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry, let me rephrase it.
Mr. Mesereau: After the DCFS meeting that you have described, you learned at some point that Attorney Feldman spoke to prosecutors in this case, correct?
Mr. Zonen: Unless this conversation was in his presence, I'll object as hearsay and lack of foundation.
Mr. Mesereau: State of mind, Your Honor.
The Court: I'll allow the question. “Yes” or “no” answer only.
Stan Katz: Could you repeat the question?
The Court: Do you want it read back?
Stan Katz: Thank you, Your Honor.
The Court Reporter: After the DCFS meeting that you have described, you learned at some point that Attorney Feldman spoke to prosecutors in this case, correct?
Stan Katz: The only -- I'm sorry, but I'm not sure which prosecutor or prosecutors or assistant. I don't -- I know he called Mr. Sneddon's office. I don't have a recollection if he called directly to him.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you have any knowledge of when the Arvizos first met Attorney Larry Feldman?
Stan Katz: I vaguely remember. I think it was a month or two before I saw them.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And correct me if I'm wrong, but you're suggesting to the jury that sometime after your last interview on June 11th, the Arvizos in some form contacted the police, correct?
Stan Katz: I have no idea how that happened.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. But based on what you've just said, and I'm referring exactly to your understanding, that the Arvizos had talked to Mr. Feldman for a month or two before you got involved, right?
Stan Katz: And I'm very vague about it. It could be a couple weeks, but some period of time before I got involved.
Mr. Zonen: Judge, I'm going to object as lack of foundation, unless he was involved in those conversations.
The Court: Overruled. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: Clearly, it was your understanding that the Arvizos had spoke to Attorney Larry Feldman before Mr. Feldman contacted you about this case, correct?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And based on what you've just told the jury, it was approximately a month after your first interview with any of the Arvizos that any report was made to any agency, true?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; vague. I'm not sure which agency, which report and by whom? By Feldman? By the Arvizos? By the police?
The Court: All right. That's enough. The objection is overruled. Read the question back to him.
The Court Reporter: And based on what you've just told the jury, it was approximately a month after your first interview with any of the Arvizos that any report was made to any agency, true?
Stan Katz: The first interview was on May 15th with mother. The first interview with the children was May 29th. The report was made on June 12th.
Mr. Mesereau: That's the report to DCFS, correct?
Stan Katz: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And it's your understanding that any contact with Santa Barbara, be it sheriffs or prosecutors, was after your meeting at DCFS, correct?
Stan Katz: That's my understanding.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Clearly, it was always your understanding that the Arvizos first went to lawyers before they ever went to any police office, correct?
Stan Katz: It's my understanding that they went to attorneys before they went to the police department. That's my understanding.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that they first went to Attorney Dickerman before they went to Attorney Feldman?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you have indicated that you were retained by Attorney Larry Feldman to work with him on his civil suit that he filed against Mr. Jackson in 1993, correct?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that Mr. Feldman was in contact with Mr. Sneddon in 1993?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; lack of foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Stan Katz: I have no information about that at all. I don't have any memory of that, any information about that.
Mr. Mesereau: Regarding your work on the 1993 case for Attorney Larry Feldman, when did your work cease?
Stan Katz: Let me help you out by telling you what my work was. My work was to review the videotapes that were made between the victim --
Mr. Mesereau: No, I'm -- go ahead.
Stan Katz: -- and Dr. Richard Gardner.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Stan Katz: And to review those tapes, those videotapes, and to view them and analyze them to give my feedback to Mr. Feldman.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, no criminal case was ever filed against Mr. Jackson based on that '93 case, correct?
Stan Katz: That's my understanding.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Let me take just one more second, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: I asked you at the beginning of my cross-examination about someone named Lee Hausner, correct --
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- who you met?
Stan Katz: I know Lee.
Mr. Mesereau: And Lee has referred, I think you said, something like six to eight patients to you?
Stan Katz: I'm probably estimating around that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether or not Lee Hausner referred the '93 case against Mr. Jackson to Mr. Feldman?
Stan Katz: I'm almost sure she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I have no further questions, Your Honor.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Mesereau asked you if you knew whether or not criminal charges had been filed against Mr. Jackson as a result of that '93 investigation, and you said no --
Stan Katz: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: -- that they had not been.
Stan Katz: That's my understanding.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know why not?
Stan Katz: I understand a settlement --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Objection. Irrelevant; foundation; beyond the scope.
The Court: Foundation; sustained. And relevance.
Mr. Zonen: Doctor, you made a reference to -- or counsel made a reference to 40 percent false accusations. What is that in reference to?
Stan Katz: I was specifically talking about young children. I was referring to the numerous cases that were filed in the 1980s in preschools where we had infants and toddlers alleging molestation, and I was talking about the -- the incredible number of high-conflict divorce cases where there were allegations of molestation with very young children, pre-verbal children, under the age of three and four. I was not talking about extrafamilial sexual abuse. I wasn't talking about older children. I was specifically referring to those cases.
Mr. Zonen: What do you mean by extrafamilial sexual abuse?
Stan Katz: Outside the family. Where the perpetrator is not a member of the family.
Mr. Zonen: What is your understanding about the percentage of false allegations in those types of cases involving older children?
Stan Katz: My experience, my clinical experience, my collegial experience, is that there's very, very few false allegations made with alleged perpetrators outside the family by a child over the age of five.
Mr. Zonen: And involving specifically allegations of sexual abuse involving boys, adolescent boys, what are the difficulties involved in making a false allegation --
Stan Katz: Well --
Mr. Zonen: -- or sustaining it?
Stan Katz: A pre-adolescent or adolescent boy is hypersensitive about his sexuality. It would be extremely unusual for a child who's developmentally at a stage where he's trying to figure out who he is, and to actually become a man, to make an allegation which would suggest that he's had inappropriate sexual relationships with a male. It would be extremely rare because these children are so protective and so guilt-ridden and shamed by any behavior that's extraordinary and extra-normal. So it would be highly unusual in my experience for a 12- or 13-year-old to make false allegations regarding a male perpetrator.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Doctor, based on your experience of as many years as you've been dealing with this, have you had any personal dealings or associations with cases where you believed there was a false allegation by an adolescent child motivated by profit?
Stan Katz: Well, I've had some experience where I've had some young girls actually allege molestation by stepfathers to get out of the home sometimes, or fathers, and they have been recanted fairly quickly after investigations began.
Mr. Zonen: Are there difficulties in a child maintaining false allegations, from a practical standpoint?
Stan Katz: In my experience, a child who is going to lie and fabricate cannot be consistent and hold that very long, because children are impulsive, they can't delay gratification. You can't tell a child, “Years from now, if you lie, something good will happen”. Children are very much living in the now. They don't maintain consistent allegations when they start feeling as if the disadvantages of making those allegations seriously outweigh any advantages.
Mr. Zonen: No further questions.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Other than Mr. Jackson, how many cases of alleged molestation have you worked on involving well-known celebrities?
Stan Katz: Probably less than half a dozen.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever published an article about sexual allegations against celebrities?
Stan Katz: I don't think so. I don't recall ever publishing anything like that.
Mr. Mesereau: In any of your books, have you ever authored anything about the subject of sexual allegations made against celebrities?
Stan Katz: Well, I -- I may have referred to cases, but I didn't refer to a personal concern.
Mr. Mesereau: You said something about children who are making false allegations tend to be inconsistent when they describe those false allegations, correct?
Stan Katz: No. What I said was, in fact, it's the opposite. Children who make false allegations are usually very consistent and almost scripted in what they say. They exaggerate, they embellish, they take every opportunity to make a positive into a negative. Children who have been molested tend to be inconsistent. They have problems with memory retrieval. Their data storage is not great. They don't remember dates and times, and they don't remember exactly what happened. And they don't tend to embellish and exaggerate. When you interview these children and you ask them if something happened, they won't say, “Oh, yeah, that happened too”. They'll say, “No, that didn't happen”. Children who fabricate will all of a sudden tell you that everything happened to them by everybody, and so they exaggerate because they don't know intellectually when to stop.
Mr. Mesereau: So what you're telling the jury is, in your experience, exaggeration and embellishment can be signs of false allegations of sexual abuse?
Stan Katz: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And if you were investigating an allegation of sexual abuse, and if you, as a professional, were to learn that there was a history of false allegations before, would that be something that you would consider?
Stan Katz: A false allegation of sexual abuse?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Stan Katz: And the false allegations have been determined to be false?
Mr. Mesereau: Or you think they're false, because you see a lot of exaggeration and embellishment in what the children say.
Stan Katz: Well, you can't simplify it. These are just two factors. So I'm saying that children tend to do these things. They tend to exaggerate and embellish. That does not predict that they are lying. But if children do embellish and exaggerate, I'd be suspect of what the motivation is for making the comments.
Mr. Mesereau: And if, in any of these cases, there is no physical evidence to support the allegation of sexual abuse, the decision regarding whether or not you believe the allegation is true is really a subjective one, right?
Stan Katz: Well, there's rarely evidence in these kinds of cases. I've been involved in thousands. Rarely see evidence, physical evidence, like trauma to the genitals, for example. It's subjective evaluation based on an assessment and many data sources to actually determine what happened.
Mr. Mesereau: Doctor, in cases involving sexual abuse in the criminal courts, you're seeing more DNA evidence all the time used in these cases, correct?
Stan Katz: In some sexual abuse cases, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You're seeing evidence of semen, DNA, and things of that sort, correct?
Stan Katz: In some of the cases, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And if you don't have any physical evidence, it becomes pretty much a subjective determination regarding credibility, correct?
Stan Katz: Well, there may be other evidence which is more objective. But certainly if you don't have the physical evidence, you're missing one -- the physical trauma, you're missing one piece. But sexual abuse is not physically traumatic. Fondling does not leave marks and bruises and semen.
Mr. Mesereau: But sexual abuse can leave marks or bruises or semen, true?
Stan Katz: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Depending on the nature of it?
Stan Katz: Yes, it can.
Mr. Mesereau: And if it leaves marks or bruises or semen and there's evidence of that, it would support a claim, correct?
Stan Katz: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when you say exaggeration or embellishment can be indications of a false claim, that could certainly include stories changing, could it not?
Stan Katz: Well, as I said before, stories changing suggests that the child may be actually telling the truth, because children cannot retain memories very well. Their storage retrieval system is not very sophisticated. And as you can tell, even us professionals can't remember everything we did a year ago, let alone two years ago. So it's very hard for a child to do that, and that would not be predictive whatsoever of a false claim.
The Court: All right. Let's take a break.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: You may proceed.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Dr. Katz, are you suggesting to the jury that you don't often see false claims of sexual abuse by teenagers?
Stan Katz: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you published any articles on that subject?
Stan Katz: I have not.
Mr. Mesereau: What research have you done on that subject?
Stan Katz: I have read probably all the current research on “Jeopardy in the Courtroom”, which cites all the research regarding children in the courtroom regarding molestation.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, tell me what research you've done into how many civil cases have been filed by plaintiffs who are teenagers in the area of sexual abuse and how many have been won or lost?
Stan Katz: I have no research about that.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions.
Message: FURTHER REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Doctor, do you have personal experiences involving your own caseload over the past 20-plus years that you've been doing this where you believe there were cases that were allegations, false allegations, of molestation that were motivated by profit?
Stan Katz: In addition to all the cases that I've seen - I've supervised numerous interns and other professionals - I don't recall seeing any adolescents or preadolescents who were making allegations for profit. I do and have been involved with lawsuits where children have alleged molestation, and there have been civil suits and they've been awarded damages. So that wasn't the motivation, but they did proceed with the civil case and they were awarded damages.
Mr. Zonen: All right. But in terms of where you believe that the allegation itself was false --
Stan Katz: No.
Mr. Zonen: -- that was motivated by profit?
Stan Katz: No.
Mr. Zonen: No further questions.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down.
Stan Katz: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Zonen: Call William Dickerman to the stand, please.
The Court: Come to the front of the courtroom, please. When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing, face the clerk here, and raise your right hand.
Message: WILLIAM DICKERMAN Having so affirmed, testified as follows:
William Dickerman: Respectfully, I'd prefer to take an affirmation.
The Court: You may.
The Clerk: All right. Do you solemnly affirm that you will well and truly answer the questions propounded to you under the subject of penalty of perjury?
William Dickerman: I do.
The Clerk: Thank you. Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
William Dickerman: William Dickerman; D-i-c-k-e-r-m-a-n. (Discussion held off the record at counsel table.)
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Dickerman, good afternoon.
William Dickerman: Good afternoon.
Mr. Zonen: Sir, what is your current occupation?
William Dickerman: I'm an attorney at law.
Mr. Zonen: And you've been an attorney for how long?
William Dickerman: Since 1977.
Mr. Zonen: It won't be a long direct examination. I don't think I have much voice left, so we'll keep it brief.
The Court: You need to be closer to the mike, Mr. Dickerman. And they're not hearing you either, probably because of your cold.
William Dickerman: Is that better now?
The Court: Yes, thanks.
Mr. Zonen: Is that better now?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Sir, what kind of a practice do you have?
William Dickerman: I'm a civil litigator/trial lawyer.
Mr. Zonen: Are you a sole practitioner or do you work in a law firm?
William Dickerman: I am a sole practitioner.
Mr. Zonen: What kinds of cases do you handle typically?
William Dickerman: Well, generally civil, or strictly civil rather than criminal, which means anything from contract breaches, to torts, negligence cases, unfair competition, copyright infringement. A whole broad array of noncriminal cases.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know Jamie Masada?
William Dickerman: I do.
Mr. Zonen: Is he is a client of yours?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And you have represented him at different times over the years?
William Dickerman: I have.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know Janet Arvizo?
William Dickerman: I do.
Mr. Zonen: Is she a client, or was she a client of yours?
William Dickerman: She was, and I believe she thinks she still is, so I'm assuming that she is.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. When did you first meet Janet Arvizo?
William Dickerman: February 21st, I think, 2003. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Zonen: Excuse me.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry, tell me the date of your first meeting with her.
William Dickerman: February 21st, 2003.
Mr. Zonen: 2003. And who was it who introduced you to her?
William Dickerman: Jamie Masada.
Mr. Zonen: And what was your understanding of the nature of the problem?
William Dickerman: Well, I have to be careful about disclosing any attorney-client privilege. And it's my understanding that Miss Arvizo and her family have not waived the privilege, so I've got to be careful about saying what I was told.
Mr. Zonen: Let me ask you differently, then. Did you meet with her on a few occasions?
William Dickerman: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Was Mr. Masada present on those occasions?
William Dickerman: Some he was; some he was not. The initial meetings he was.
Mr. Zonen: Approximately how many meetings did you have with Ms. Arvizo where Jamie Masada was present?
William Dickerman: I'd say a total of three or four in either my office or at The Laugh Factory, and -- oh, gosh, there were other times during the representation when we were all together.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did -- you did have a meeting with her at The Laugh Factory; is that correct?
William Dickerman: I believe there were at least two at The Laugh Factory.
Mr. Zonen: What are the dates of those, if you know, or if you have them written down?
William Dickerman: One of them I know was February 25th. And there was another one that I -- I don't know the date of, but I believe it was not very long after that date.
Mr. Zonen: Did you engage in efforts to do things or perform services on behalf of Miss Arvizo?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did that involve writing letters?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: To whom did you write letters?
William Dickerman: Well, the first letter I wrote was to Mr. Geragos, who I understood was representing Mr. Jackson at the time. And there was a whole series of letters to him. After Mr. Geragos, I wrote -- or I'm not sure, maybe it was even before Mr. Geragos, I was writing letters to various media outlets with regard to the “Living with Michael Jackson” show.
Mr. Zonen: What was the extent of the problem as you expressed it to Mr. Geragos?
William Dickerman: There were a number of problems that I expressed to Geragos. And I remember I wrote a letter on March 26th that covered three or four or five of those things.
Mr. Zonen: Was that the first letter that you wrote?
William Dickerman: I believe so.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Go ahead.
William Dickerman: The most serious issue, as I recall, was an intimidation/harassment/surveillance issue that I expressed to him. I was asking him or directing him to cut it out, or to have Mr. Jackson's people stop surveilling, harassing, intimidating my clients.
Mr. Zonen: And what else did you ask for? Did you ask specifically for anything to be returned?
William Dickerman: Yes, I believe in that letter, and in several others soon thereafter, I asked for the return of passports, visas, birth certificates. There may have been some other papers.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And did you ask, as well, for other possessions that belonged to the Arvizo family?
William Dickerman: I don't know if it was in that first letter. In one, at least one letter -- in fact, several letters, I asked for return of clothing that had apparently been -- not been returned to Gavin when they left Neverland, including tap shoes, shirts, socks, perhaps one or two other things.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Were you aware as to whether or not their possessions, in other words, the contents of their apartment, had been moved to some location?
William Dickerman: I had been told that they had been moved to some location.
Mr. Zonen: Did you make some effort to notify Mr. Geragos of that fact and to ask that their possessions be returned?
William Dickerman: Yes, I believe it was in that same letter and others thereafter that I asked not only -- well, asked that they be returned, but preliminarily, to get a listing of what those items were, where they were, who had control over them. I wanted a whole listing of things so we would know what there was and what to do with it.
Mr. Zonen: All right. May I approach the witness, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Dickerman, I'm going to show you two exhibits. Exhibit No. 625 and Exhibit No. 630 both appear to be a collection of materials. Could you take them both? And let's start with 625. Take a moment, if you will, and look through 625, and tell me if you recognize the content of that exhibit.
William Dickerman: I do recognize the content.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And what is that collection of letters?
William Dickerman: These are letters to -- mostly to Mr. Geragos, and at least one from him, with regard to those efforts that you just asked about.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did Mr. Geragos acknowledge to you that they had Miss Arvizo's passport?
William Dickerman: I don't believe he ever acknowledged it.
Mr. Zonen: Did he ever acknowledge that he had any -- or they had any of her other possessions, including the content of her apartment?
William Dickerman: At some point he did state that they did have the items in storage.
Mr. Zonen: For the period of time that you were engaged in these communications by mail with Mr. Geragos -- a period of what appears to be a couple months; is that correct?
William Dickerman: The first one was March 26th and his last letter to me apparently was June 2nd, so more than a couple months.
Mr. Zonen: Were you successful in getting Miss Arvizo and her family's possessions returned to them?
William Dickerman: Not at all.
Mr. Zonen: Did Mr. Geragos ever tell you where they were?
William Dickerman: I don't believe so. I think he simply referred to -- or referred the matter to Mr. Miller, Brad Miller, who then got in touch with me.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And when was that, the date of that?
William Dickerman: Well, on June 2nd, he wrote that -- well, he asked to have my clients, quote, “assume responsibility for the lockers”. I don't know that I knew at that time which lockers that he was talking about. But then on June 12th, or thereabouts, I received from Brad Miller a letter in which he specified for the first time who had moved the items and where they were in storage.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Up until that point, did Mr. Geragos ever tell you where your clients' possessions had been taken?
William Dickerman: No. No.
Mr. Zonen: What was your understanding of the extent of those possessions?
William Dickerman: Well, again, without breaching attorney-client privilege --
Mr. Zonen: Just on the basis of your communication with Mr. Geragos.
William Dickerman: Well, he had suggested to me that there might be two vaults' worth of material, and my understanding was that there was considerably less than that. Of course, I don't know what he meant by a “vault”, but I was under the impression that there was not very much that we were talking about at all.
Mr. Zonen: Was it all the furnishings of an apartment?
William Dickerman: That was my understanding.
Mr. Zonen: Was this different from your request for materials to be sent back that included clothing, dance shoes and passports?
William Dickerman: Well, the -- yes. The only things that I asked him to deliver, and repeatedly, many, many times, was the items that were recently transportable, the passports, the visas, the birth certificates and the clothing.
Mr. Zonen: Did you learn whether or not your clients' possessions were actually delivered to your office at some point in time?
William Dickerman: Yes. I got a phone message the day -- or the day -- I think it was the day that they were brought over. The office manager was irate that certain things had been delivered or attempted to be delivered, furniture, boxes and whatnot, and it was a day that I was out for a religious holiday. So I was very surprised to find that this had happened. And I was told that those materials had been told to be returned, that they were not off-loaded. And I was quite upset about that, because I had made no arrangements with Mr. Geragos or anybody else for those things to be delivered at any time.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a message on your voice mail or your answer phone that -- answer phone is what I mean to say, indicating that you would not be in the office on that particular day?
William Dickerman: Absolutely. Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: That's the day that these things were delivered?
William Dickerman: That's the day that they were delivered.
Mr. Zonen: Were they actually received or accepted by the office manager?
William Dickerman: No.
Mr. Zonen: Or the building manager?
William Dickerman: They were not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you talk with Mr. Geragos thereafter about that?
William Dickerman: I don't believe I spoke with him about it. But we did have an exchange of letters.
Mr. Zonen: Again, during that entire -- I think we're talking about eight to ten weeks, was anything ever delivered to you, where you took possession of it, or, to your knowledge, your client did?
William Dickerman: Not a single item.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have actual verbal conversation with Mr. Geragos during that period of time?
William Dickerman: I believe there was at least one, perhaps two.
Mr. Zonen: Did you, in the course of those conversations, ask him about your clients' passports?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And is this passports for each member of the family?
William Dickerman: I think so. May I refer to --
Mr. Zonen: Yes, please.
William Dickerman: Yes, the passports of the entire family.
Mr. Zonen: What did Mr. Geragos tell you about the passports, if anything?
William Dickerman: I don't recall specifically, without looking at the document that embodies a memo, of what I talked to him about, but I don't think he knew what I was talking about. I remember him --
Mr. Zonen: Well, you have a number of letters to him included in this packet that is 625 where you ask him about passports, do you not?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ask him to check into it?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ask him about visas as well?
William Dickerman: I don't remember. But again, there is a memo of a phone conversation I had with him, and it would be in that -- and that memo has been produced to everybody involved in the case, as far as I know.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Dickerman, at any time during the eight to ten weeks that you were dealing with Mr. Geragos and ultimately communication with Mr. Miller, did he ever tell you, “Yes, we are in possession of these passports, and we will return them to you and your clients immediately”?
William Dickerman: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did he ever acknowledge being in possession of those passports?
William Dickerman: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did he ever acknowledge those passports existed?
William Dickerman: No.
Mr. Zonen: Those communications, 625, that you've looked at, are those letters accurate reproductions of the communications between you and Mr. Geragos in writing, and in return, Mr. Geragos back to you?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Now, turn to the next group of letters, please. That's 630; is that correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Excuse me. 630 is a collection of what kind of materials, please?
William Dickerman: These are letters to and from -- well, from me to various attorneys, media outlets, with regard to trying to -- with regard to the Bashir show “Living with Michael Jackson”.
Mr. Zonen: And among the people you wrote letters to are whom?
William Dickerman: There was Granada Television. Granada Media Group. The British firm, law firm, of Addleshaw and Goddard. David LeGrand at Hale, Lane, which is a firm -- law firm in Las Vegas.
Mr. Zonen: Addleshaw and Goddard is where, what location?
William Dickerman: In London.
Mr. Zonen: In London, okay.
William Dickerman: And finally, the Broadcasting Standards Commission in London.
Mr. Zonen: All right. The purpose of these communications was what?
William Dickerman: Well, there are various purposes for the different ones.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Were you -- what did they concern in general?
William Dickerman: They all concerned the “Living with Michael Jackson” television program.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What was your concern about that?
William Dickerman: Well, the concern as to Granada was that Granada and ITV, which was I believe a corporation associated with Granada in England, they cease and desist from using any program, tape, interview or film footage, whether it was used in the “Living with Michael Jackson” program or not, for any purpose whatsoever unless they could provide valid consents by my clients, who had been shot in that video or in that program.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did all of these communications effectively deal with some issue pertaining to the screening of “Living with Michael Jackson”?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was there any mention made to you by any of the people with whom you communicated over this issue that they, in fact, represented the Arvizo family or any of the Arvizo children in any claims against those who produced the documentary “Living with Michael Jackson”?
William Dickerman: Yes, the Addleshaw-Goddard firm, especially -- or particularly Michelle Boote, who I understood was a lawyer with that firm, stated numerous times that that firm had been requested by Ms. Arvizo to represent her in this complaint.
Mr. Zonen: Was your purpose in this communication effectively to tell them that they were not?
William Dickerman: Yes, and to keep them from moving forward with anything that they were doing on the complaint supposedly on her behalf.
Mr. Zonen: And -- all right. And did you instruct them not to proceed on her behalf in any other representation?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Why did you do that?
William Dickerman: Because it was my understanding that she had never given any consent for them to do so.
Mr. Zonen: And was there a reason that you didn't want them representing her?
William Dickerman: Because they weren't asked to represent her, and she didn't want them representing her.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Was it your understanding that you would be representing her on that particular issue dealing with the ramifications of the documentary “Living with Michael Jackson”?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Now, you sent -- that collection of documents that you're looking at, No. 630, is that, in fact, a complete collection, if you can tell, of all the communications that you had with Addleshaw-Goddard and with Mr. David LeGross?
William Dickerman: It was LeGrand.
Mr. Zonen: LeGrand, I'm sorry. As well as BBC?
William Dickerman: Well, I know there were a number of communications. I can't be sure this is all of them. I certainly produced all of them, as far as I knew. I believe so.
Mr. Zonen: To the extent that you're looking at a collection of documents, each of the documents that you see in that exhibit, 630, is certainly one of those letters; is that correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Either to you or from you?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you file a lawsuit on behalf of Janet Arvizo or her family?
William Dickerman: No.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, did you refer this matter to another attorney?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Who was that other attorney?
William Dickerman: Larry Feldman.
Mr. Zonen: And why did you do that?
William Dickerman: Excuse me. I began representing the Arvizos in February. And by the time I met with Mr. Feldman, it was the beginning of May. In that period of time I had learned a lot of things. There were a lot of allegations being made, and I realized that the best thing for my clients to do, and for me personally as their attorney, was to get some expert input as to matters of Michael Jackson. The initial things I didn't think I really needed to do that with, but as things developed, I wanted to get some input. So I met with Mr. Feldman, whom, by the way, I knew -- not “by the way”. It was very important. I knew that he was -- by reputation, he was one of the top trial lawyers in California, if not the United States. And actually, previously, not knowing him except by reputation, I had referred a case to him, tried to refer a case to him that I could not handle for various reasons of an old client of mine. And I knew that he was the go-to guy with regard to Michael Jackson matters. Of course, I knew about the 1993 case, so I met with him, with the idea of picking his brain, actually, not to refer any matters to him. And afterwards, he met with them, and they -- we all associated together. The Arvizos hired both him and me.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Have you filed a lawsuit as of this time on behalf of the Arvizos or anybody else?
William Dickerman: No.
Mr. Zonen: Is it the case that the extent of your dealings with them so far, in terms of your communicating with others, has been for purposes of getting their property returned or dealing with the consequences of “Living with Michael Jackson”, the documentary?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have an understanding with Mr. Feldman that should there be a lawsuit in the future, that --
The Court: They're not hearing you.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
The Court: Behind; these people can't hear you.
Mr. Zonen: I'm terribly sorry.
Mr. Zonen: Is there an arrangement that, should there be a lawsuit in the future, that there would be compensation for you in any form of a settlement even if you're not participating in that lawsuit? Do you know what I mean?
William Dickerman: Well, we have an agreement.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
William Dickerman: It doesn't say anything about participation or not. We were retained together, and I have a fee-sharing arrangement with Mr. Feldman.
Mr. Zonen: Which means what?
William Dickerman: Which means I will get -- if there is such a lawsuit anytime in the future, that I will be entitled to a sliding scale, depending on whether there's a settlement or a judgment.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. What kind of lawsuit do you anticipate?
William Dickerman: I don't anticipate any lawsuit. My understanding is that there isn't one in the offing. Nobody's talking about one. And I suppose if there were to be one -- well, that would be speculation.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. I have no further questions.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning. Or good afternoon, I guess.
William Dickerman: Good afternoon.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Dickerman, my name is Tom Mesereau. I speak for Mr. Jackson.
William Dickerman: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: You just told the jury you have a fee-sharing arrangement with Attorney Larry Feldman, right?
William Dickerman: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And fee-sharing arrangements among attorneys are a fairly standard type of thing, are they not?
William Dickerman: Under certain circumstances, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And typically in a fee-sharing arrangement, the understanding is the following: Attorney 1 refers the case to Attorney 2. Attorney 2 files a lawsuit. And if there's a settlement or a judgment or any amount of money recovered, then Attorney 2 has to give Attorney 1 a percentage of the recovery the attorney gets, right?
William Dickerman: Under circumstances as they often are, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: It's typically called “a referral fee”, right?
William Dickerman: There are situations where there are referral fees, and there are situations where the attorney would be involved in the lawsuit and that's how he would be compensated.
Mr. Mesereau: In your typical referral fee arrangement, the referring attorney, being the attorney that sends the business to the other attorney, has an arrangement where, if the other attorney collects money, he gives a percentage to the attorney that referred the matter, right?
William Dickerman: In any strict referral fee arrangement, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But what you're telling the jury is your arrangement with Larry Feldman is not a strict referral fee arrangement, correct?
William Dickerman: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Your agreement with Larry Feldman is that you both will share in any fees collected, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that would mean if tomorrow, or next month, or this summer, you and Mr. Feldman decide to file a civil suit against Mr. Jackson, you have an understanding that if any money is obtained, you'll get a piece of that money, right?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When were you retained by Janet Arvizo?
William Dickerman: Do you mean when a fee agreement was signed?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
William Dickerman: Well, there are a couple of different ones, and they were both around March 24th, 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the first date you met her?
William Dickerman: No. We met February 21st.
Mr. Mesereau: And who was at that first meeting on February 21st?
William Dickerman: Mr. Masada, Ms. Arvizo, I was, and I think the three children were there, maybe in and out. I believe I met them there, but I don't think they were in on the meeting.
Mr. Mesereau: Why was Masada in the meeting?
William Dickerman: Well, Mr. Masada was the one who had brought the people to me, and my understanding was that there was no way that they were going to talk to me without him there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
William Dickerman: He was greasing the rails, as it were, to get them to trust me enough to talk to me. They had no reason to talk to me otherwise.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you had represented Masada for many years, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many years had you represented Jamie Masada at the point where you first met the Arvizos?
William Dickerman: I think I began representing Mr. Masada in 1991. Perhaps 1990. So that would be about 12 years.
Mr. Mesereau: Had you represented Mr. Masada in any lawsuits?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many?
William Dickerman: I couldn't tell you precisely.
Mr. Mesereau: How about generally?
William Dickerman: Fewer than ten. Between five and ten, probably. I shouldn't say that. I represented him in many matters. How many have been lawsuits, I can think of three off the top of my head. So there were probably five.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately five civil lawsuits?
William Dickerman: I would say so.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And are you a civil litigator?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you litigate civil suits from start to finish?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And would that mean that you will litigate the case either to a settlement or a trial?
William Dickerman: Which case? You mean generally speaking?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you've indicated you represented Mr. Masada in matters other than the civil lawsuits you've just described, right?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Generally, what did those matters entail?
William Dickerman: Business matters, generally speaking.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you consider yourself to be Mr. Masada's principal business lawyer?
William Dickerman: Well, he has told me I am. From time to time he's had me coordinate everything, so, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And would that mean you draft documents for Mr. Masada?
William Dickerman: I have done that. I'm not a transactional attorney, so if there's something major to draft that does not involve litigation, probably not.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you often attend business meetings involving Mr. Masada?
William Dickerman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you draft articles in the corporation for Mr. Masada?
William Dickerman: No. When I say “business attorney”, I'm assuming that you mean handling business litigation for him.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh, okay. Do you typically write business letters for Mr. Masada?
William Dickerman: I don't know what you mean by “typically”. I have done so.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Are they typically litigation-type letters or something else?
William Dickerman: Both.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you do both civil litigation for him and you give general business advice, right?
William Dickerman: A little of the latter.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And at the time you first met the Arvizos, you had represented Mr. Masada for approximately 12 years, correct?
William Dickerman: On and off, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you the lawyer for The Laugh Factory?
William Dickerman: I don't know what that means.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you do legal work for The Laugh Factory?
William Dickerman: I have.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What kind of business claims have you handled for Masada?
William Dickerman: Well, I think that's attorney-client privilege, and since he hasn't waived the privilege, I really can't go into specifics.
Mr. Mesereau: Let's refer to filed documents, pleadings with the civil court. What kinds of lawsuits have you represented him in?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as exceeding the scope of the direct examination.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the Arvizos retain your services or did Mr. Masada?
William Dickerman: The Arvizos.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And would it be correct to say that at the time you were representing the Arvizos, you were also representing Masada in other matters?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, the documents the prosecutor has given you in the form of exhibits in no shape or form come close to the number of letters you sent or received on behalf of the Arvizos, correct?
William Dickerman: Not correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, are they all of them?
William Dickerman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: On March 27th, you sent a letter to the executive vice-president and general counsel of Walt Disney & Company, correct?
William Dickerman: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you a copy of the letter?
William Dickerman: It might.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
William Dickerman: Yes, that's a copy of a letter I wrote.
Mr. Mesereau: Does that appear to be the first letter you ever sent on behalf of the Arvizos; do you think?
William Dickerman: If that's dated March 27th, I think the 26th to Geragos is the first one. Actually, I'm not -- excuse me. There were a number of letters written with regard to the “Living with Michael Jackson” show --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
William Dickerman: -- that may have been well before that. I don't know. If you show them to me, obviously I did.
Mr. Mesereau: But they retain you on the 24th, and you sent a letter to Mark Geragos on the 26th, right?
William Dickerman: Well, when you say “retain”, they signed an agreement on the 24th. As I said, they may have signed -- they did sign one earlier that covered different matters. And that's just the formal retaining. That doesn't mean I wasn't their attorney. I was their attorney, as far as I understood, whenever they were talking to me about these matters, whether they signed an agreement or not.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, without going into any attorney-client privileged information, which is obviously confidential, when you wrote a letter to Geragos on the 26th, which is two days after you were retained, the basis for your information in the letter had to have been your client, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you suggested in the letter that Mr. Jackson had relentlessly hounded and harassed the children, right?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You never witnessed that yourself, correct?
William Dickerman: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You said that Mr. Jackson had hounded, harassed the mother almost daily since they left Neverland, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You never witnessed that. You just wrote a letter based on the information given to you, right?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You suggested that Mr. Jay Jackson had been harassed, correct?
William Dickerman: Can you point me to where I said that?
Mr. Mesereau: Sure. Right in the middle of that Paragraph No. 1.
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Jay Jackson your client at the time?
William Dickerman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You suggested in the letter to Mr. Geragos on March 26th that there had been banging on the Arvizo's door at all hours, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And certainly you never personally witnessed that, right?
William Dickerman: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: That came from your discussions with your clients, right?
William Dickerman: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: You said disturbing notes had been left, correct?
William Dickerman: Are you in the same paragraph?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. A little further down.
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that information came from your clients, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You said on March 26th, your clients believed that Mr. Jackson was illegally eavesdropping on their phone conversations, right?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And it was your understanding they weren't living at Neverland at the time, right?
William Dickerman: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: That information, of course, came from your clients, right?
William Dickerman: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: At no time in that letter to Mark Geragos of March 26th did you ever mention anything about child molestation, right?
William Dickerman: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you talked about wanting passports and visas returned, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And at some point you learned that Mr. Geragos had turned the passports in to this court, correct?
William Dickerman: I think so. But that might have been a few weeks ago. Or even last week. I don't even know how I learned about it, but --
Mr. Mesereau: But you heard about it at some point, right?
William Dickerman: I think so. It rings a bell.
Mr. Mesereau: That Mr. Geragos had arranged to deposit those passports in this courthouse?
Mr. Zonen: I don't know that this witness has personal knowledge. Lack-of-foundation objection.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Nowhere in this letter of March 26th that you wrote to Mr. Geragos on behalf of the Arvizos is there any mention of alcohol, correct?
William Dickerman: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you ask for a return in the last paragraph of the papers they have signed, including passport and visa applications, correct?
William Dickerman: Not in the last paragraph of the letter.
Mr. Mesereau: Paragraph No. 2 on the first page, which is the very bottom.
William Dickerman: Oh.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry. I should have said the first page.
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding they had signed passport and visa applications?
William Dickerman: I did not know about anything that they had signed other -- I didn't know about whether they had signed passports or visa applications.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you asked for signed documents in connection with a legal action in Britain concerning “Living with Michael Jackson”, right?
William Dickerman: Yes, but that wasn't passports or visas.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that the Arvizos had signed documents involving the show “Living with Michael Jackson”?
William Dickerman: There was one document that purportedly had been signed, that I was aware of, by Miss Arvizo with regard to that action in Britain.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, in this letter of March 26th to Mr. Geragos, there is no mention of the Arvizo family ever being falsely imprisoned, correct?
William Dickerman: I believe that's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And in this letter of March 26th to Attorney Mark Geragos, there's no mention of the Arvizo family ever being kidnapped, correct?
William Dickerman: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: In this letter of March 26th, 2003, to Mr. Geragos that you wrote, there's no mention of any extortion, right?
William Dickerman: I believe that's correct. I haven't read this word for word, but it sounds right.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you sent this letter to Mr. Geragos on March 26th, 2003, two days after you had been retained by the Arvizos, did you ever call the police to complain about false imprisonment, kidnapping, molestation or alcohol?
William Dickerman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you asked for the return of personal property to the Arvizos in this March 26th, 2003, letter to Geragos, right?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And your understanding was that this personal property was stored somewhere, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you know it was stored somewhere?
William Dickerman: I don't recall specifically how I learned -- well, without violating the attorney-client privilege, I really can't go into it more.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. But clearly the letter says you want the keys to all locations and facilities in which this property has been stored, right?
William Dickerman: Where are you?
Mr. Mesereau: Page two, the very beginning.
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, in this letter you wrote on March 26th, you said that your clients wanted copies of all tapes, films, audio recordings, photographs, images on film, et cetera, of your clients, the Arvizos, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And the reason for that was, you, as their lawyer, thought that any tapes or recordings of the Arvizos may have monetary value, correct?
William Dickerman: Well, that gets into the work-product doctrine, my opinions and thoughts, and I'm not waiving that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
William Dickerman: So I can't tell you what I was thinking or why I was thinking it.
Mr. Mesereau: But you wanted the tape or film of the Arvizos that was made in the home in the San Fernando Valley within the last two months, right?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you ever seen that?
William Dickerman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. You also wanted Mr. Geragos, in your letter of March 26th, 2003, to provide you with any releases that may have been signed by any Arvizo concerning the show “Living with Michael Jackson”, right?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And please tell the jury what you meant by “release” in that letter of March 26th.
William Dickerman: Well, typically before a production is mounted, whether it's television or movies or anything that depicts an individual -- I shouldn't say “generally”. Very often, if people are smart, they get a release from the person who's the subject of the show, and that then protects the producers and everybody else involved with the show from liability from the individual who is depicted.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding releases had been signed?
William Dickerman: It's my understanding that some releases, some purported releases, had been signed for some purpose.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
William Dickerman: Some --
Mr. Mesereau: And you wanted those back, right?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You made a statement that the Arvizos were hereby revoking any release they had signed in favor of Mr. Jackson, right?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were making a claim that any such release was obtained by fraud or undue influence, correct?
William Dickerman: Well, more fully, undue influence, fraud, misrepresentation, false pretenses and/or duress.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you mention specifically the word “fraud”, don't you?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, as a civil litigator, you're aware of how long one has to file a fraud claim against someone else in a civil suit, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what I'm referring to is what is called a statute of limitations, correct?
William Dickerman: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: What is the statute of limitations for filing a claim for fraud in civil court?
William Dickerman: Three years from the fraud or from the time that the plaintiff should have known about it.
Mr. Mesereau: And based on the date of your letter, Janet Arvizo would have till approximately some date in 2006 to file a fraud claim against Mr. Jackson if she chose to, correct?
William Dickerman: I don't know. I don't know when the actionable events would have occurred or what exactly the fraud action would have involved.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you refer to fraud, correct?
William Dickerman: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You refer to fraud in a specific context, correct?
William Dickerman: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: The context in which you refer to fraud is a suggestion that any releases signed were fraudulently induced, true?
William Dickerman: Right. So it would be three years from the fraudulent inducement or the time when the plaintiff should have discovered it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you threaten Mr. Geragos with a civil restraining order, true, in the last paragraph?
William Dickerman: Well, I wouldn't say “threaten”. I say that this is what we intended to do.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever do that?
William Dickerman: It wasn't against Mr. Geragos.
Mr. Mesereau: It involved Mr. Jackson, true?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You were threatening to seek a civil restraining order against Mr. Jackson, correct?
William Dickerman: I'll take issue again with your description of “threat”.
Mr. Mesereau: Well --
William Dickerman: But we don't need to quibble about that. I suppose that's essentially true.
Mr. Mesereau: When you used the following words, “His failure to heed this demand will force my clients to seek a civil restraining order and perhaps to vindicate their rights in other legal ways”, that was a form of a legal threat, wasn't it?
William Dickerman: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: You said if the items weren't returned by April 1st, 2003, you would seek a civil restraining order, right?
William Dickerman: No, there is not a restraining order with regard to return of items. The restraining order would only be related to the improper conduct, the harassment, the intimidation.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever seek that civil restraining order?
William Dickerman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You have told the jury that along with communicating with Mr. Geragos about your clients' allegations of misconduct by Mr. Jackson, you were also writing to other parties about the Bashir documentary, true?
William Dickerman: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: And who were those parties?
William Dickerman: Generally speaking, they were the parties that were producing, broadcasting and other ways exploiting the show “Living with Michael Jackson”. So there was ABC, and I think Disney is ABC's parent, and the National Enquirer's parent company, I think it's American Media. There was, as I noted before, the communications with Mr. LeGrand, who was Mr. Jackson's attorney supposedly with regard to the British action. I think there were -- I know there was some communication with FOX about a subsequent production after “Living with Michael Jackson”. Various media outlets.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, the day after your first letter to Mr. Geragos on March 26th - and I'm referring to March 27th now, okay? - you wrote a letter to the executive vice-president, general counsel of Walt Disney, true? That's the letter I just showed you.
William Dickerman: Well, I don't recall specifically who it was written to, but I did write to Disney.
Mr. Mesereau: And you asked them to let you know when your clients had given any legal consent to use the footage of the Arvizos in the film “Living with Michael Jackson”, right?
William Dickerman: Without having a copy of the document, I can't vouch for what you're saying.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you the letter again?
William Dickerman: Most certainly.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
William Dickerman: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at the letter?
William Dickerman: I briefly saw what you pointed out in the paragraph.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection of what you wrote in the letter on March 27, 2003, to the Walt Disney company?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You asked them to please let you know whether such legal consent, for example, via release, was in fact given to ABC, or Granada, or anyone else involved in the program, right?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: At that point you didn't know whether they had given releases or not, true?
William Dickerman: I didn't know, that's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: On March 31st, 2003, you did a memo to your file about a phone call from Mark Geragos, right?
William Dickerman: I don't recall the date, but I know there was a typed memo to the file about a conversation with Mr. Geragos.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's when you -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. In that call to Mark Geragos that's referred to in that memo, you talk about him telling you he thinks there either is a vault or two of storage with the contents of the Arvizos' property, right?
William Dickerman: If you give me a copy of that, or give me a moment to try to dig up my own, I will be able to answer that.
Mr. Mesereau: I can show it to you, if it's easier.
William Dickerman: It will be a little quicker.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor? Thank you.
William Dickerman: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to review that memo?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about the phone call with Mr. Geragos?
William Dickerman: Not really. It refreshes my recollection as to the memo that I typed or had typed after the conversation.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, according to your memo, you said Mr. Geragos told you he thought there were passports, true?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: According to your memo, Janet Arvizo told you the harassing behavior had just stopped, correct?
William Dickerman: I really need to see that again, or I have to find my own copy.
Mr. Mesereau: I can show you mine, if you want.
William Dickerman: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
William Dickerman: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you taken a look at the memo?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about your discussions with Mr. Geragos?
William Dickerman: It refreshes my recollection of the memo. I don't recall specifically having the contents of the conversation. It was a long time ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that Janet told you that the harassment had just stopped?
William Dickerman: If it says that there, then, yes, it did. She did.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, it says that there, doesn't it?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. You talked to Mr. Geragos about the passports in a phone conversation, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And he told you he thought they existed, right?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You also asked him how to get in touch with Bashir, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And he said he would try to help you do that, right?
William Dickerman: Can you quote that language? I know he mentioned something about Granada.
Mr. Mesereau: “I also asked him about Granada, whether he could find out how to get in touch with Bashir. He said he thought it was Granada Productions, and I told him I knew of Granada Television and Granada LPC”. Okay?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: “He said he would try to get me a sheet showing the proper company”, right?
William Dickerman: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: How would you describe your relationship with Mr. Geragos at this point?
William Dickerman: That was March 27th?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
William Dickerman: Well, at that point he had not turned hostile.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
William Dickerman: So I would say it was just a regular old relationship with opposing counsel.
Mr. Mesereau: At what point do you think he turned hostile?
William Dickerman: Well, he didn't respond to any of the requests, except in that phone conversation where he -- whatever he said about the passports. He never returned anything. He didn't respond to letters. You go through these letters and I keep on recounting, “I've written to you this date, this date, this date, this date, this date. Every time I've asked you, say, 'Please return these things, you don't respond, you don't give them to me, you don't give me the contents of the storage. There's no reason not to return the passports, the visas, the birth certificates. You can get those to me right away”. And then especially when he pulls this shenanigan of having the items delivered to my office -- not “the items”, but apparently two vaults of furniture in boxes and whatnot that I had specifically never asked to have returned on a date that anybody who had called my office would know I wasn't going to be there, when we had no arrangements whatsoever. And then he has the nerve to write me later on that I had given consent somehow, which of course I never had. That was probably long past the time where I thought he had turned hostile. But obviously he wasn't responding, and it was very surprising to me to have a lawyer of supposedly his caliber being such a hostile and oppositional, adversarial person, when there was really nothing at that point that I knew to be adversarial about.
Mr. Mesereau: What you're telling the jury is that a truck came to your office or somebody had been instructed to deliver the things that you requested and nobody would accept them at your office, right?
William Dickerman: I wasn't there. All I know is what the manager of the facility told me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what you learned from the manager was that a truck of furniture and goods arrived, and that nobody would accept them, true?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, in all of these conversations you had with Mark Geragos on behalf of the Arvizos, at no time did you mention to him anything about child molestation, correct?
William Dickerman: Well, I don't think I had more than one or two conversations.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never mentioned anything about child molestation, correct?
William Dickerman: That's correct. That wasn't the purpose of the communication.
Mr. Mesereau: You never mentioned anything about wine allegedly being given to any of the Arvizo children, correct?
William Dickerman: Correct. There was no reason to do that.
Mr. Mesereau: The prosecutor, on direct examination of you, talked about your writing letters to England, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you started communicating with a company called Granada Television, Ltd., around April 3rd, 2003, right?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you wrote to that company to tell them that they were not to use any film footage or likeness of the Arvizos without their consent, right?
William Dickerman: Without providing valid consents, as I had described previously in the letter.
Mr. Mesereau: And in that letter, you said your clients had advised you they never signed any consent form, right? This is a letter of April 3rd, 2003, to Granada Television, Ltd.
William Dickerman: I'm looking at the letter.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. If you don't have it, I can show it to you.
William Dickerman: I've got it. That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't want them taping, filming, interviewing, exhibiting, selling, licensing or exploiting any of the footage involving the Arvizos, correct?
William Dickerman: With regard to “Living with Michael Jackson”, that's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. Your position was that any such footage was owned by your clients, and if it had any value, that they owned that value, right?
William Dickerman: No, my position was that they had not given their consent to be either taped, filmed, broadcast or exploited in any other way.
Mr. Mesereau: You --
William Dickerman: And we were seek --
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me. Sorry.
William Dickerman: The purpose of all these communications with regard to “Living with Michael Jackson” was to stop the exploitation of the Arvizo family.
Mr. Mesereau: You wanted any footage returned to you, right?
William Dickerman: I don't see in this letter requesting that anything be returned.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you ever recall requesting that any footage or photographs of the Arvizos be returned to you?
William Dickerman: I think I wrote something to that effect in the letter to Geragos on March 26th like we just discussed. I may have later on to somebody else, but certainly didn't in this April 3rd letter to Granada.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you want Mr. Geragos to deliver items to your office?
William Dickerman: Yes. The passports, the visas, the clothing, the birth certificates.
Mr. Mesereau: How about furniture?
William Dickerman: No. Never asked him. Never arranged for it. We never discussed it.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you saying that the Arvizos had no problem with the furniture remaining in storage as long as Mr. Jackson was paying for it?
William Dickerman: Well, it was unknown to me who was paying for it. It was unknown where the -- to me, where these things were stored. And by far, as indicated in these letters, the most important thing to be returned were the passports, visas, birth certificates, Gavin's undergarments, his tap shoes, and the other items that I specified in letter after letter, and we can go through each of those letters if you want to see me specifying them, over and over and over again, asking for only those items. And as to the materials, the items that were stored, asking for a list of items that were stored, information as to where they were stored, who had the key, who had control, so that we could dispose of those items as my clients wished.
Mr. Mesereau: And your client, Mrs. Arvizo, told you she had very little furniture that anybody could have taken, correct?
William Dickerman: Again, I -- she hasn't waived the attorney-client privilege, so for me to say anything that isn't in these letters would be beyond what I'm ethically and legally allowed to tell you.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, if there is a privilege that you were honoring, why did you write on April 8th the following to Mr. Geragos: “She tells me that contrary to what you said about there being a truckload, she had very few possessions, since she lived in a bachelor apartment. She does not believe that much, if any, furniture was removed”?
William Dickerman: Well, to write a letter to an attorney is not a violation of the attorney-client privilege. Otherwise, one lawyer could never write a letter to another lawyer making any demand on behalf of his client, because then you'd be waiving the attorney-client privilege, which I cannot. It's impossible for me to waive her privilege. And in order to get things done, obviously I've got to describe certain things that I'm told, otherwise there could be no communication.
Mr. Mesereau: You wrote a letter to Mr. Geragos on April 3rd, 2003, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: In that letter, you never mention anything about molestation, correct?
William Dickerman: That's correct. The only purpose of the letter was to get the items that I had written about before.
Mr. Mesereau: In the April 3rd letter, 2003, you mention nothing about alcohol, correct?
William Dickerman: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You mention nothing about false imprisonment, correct?
William Dickerman: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You mention nothing about any alleged kidnapping, correct?
William Dickerman: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You mentioning nothing about any alleged extortion, correct?
William Dickerman: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And as of April 3rd, 2003, you have never called the police on behalf of the Arvizos, correct?
William Dickerman: Not correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't call the police to report false imprisonment, molestation, or extortion?
William Dickerman: That's not what you asked. You'd asked if I had ever called the police.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you call the police?
William Dickerman: I was interested to find out what was happening with the investigation, and I called, I guess it was the sheriff's office, spoke to -- I don't know. I know I called. I don't know if I spoke to Sergeant Robel.
Mr. Mesereau: Not during this time period, sir.
William Dickerman: No. I never called the police to report anything about the Arvizos.
Mr. Mesereau: You're talking about calling the police at a much later date to find out about this case, correct?
William Dickerman: Right. But your question wasn't limited, and I wanted to make sure that I'm exactly accurate, to the extent that I can.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you call Mr. Robel, if you know?
William Dickerman: It seems to me it was sometime after June '03. Maybe October.
Mr. Mesereau: October of 2003?
William Dickerman: Maybe June, maybe October. I know I've produced for subpoena a sheet of something regarding a phone call to him.
Mr. Mesereau: And this would have been after you entered into a legal fee arrangement with Attorney Larry Feldman, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when did you enter into the fee arrangement with Attorney Larry Feldman?
William Dickerman: Probably early May.
Mr. Mesereau: So you enter into a fee arrangement with Attorney Larry Feldman in May, and possibly a month later, you called the sheriffs to find out about an investigation; is that correct?
William Dickerman: I -- I should probably take back the “June”. I recall, I think October. But you've got the notes. So if it's June, it's there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But right now we're on April 3rd.
William Dickerman: Let me clear up something, though, if I might. I don't know what the significance is of a fee arrangement with Larry Feldman. I previously had fee agreements with the Arvizos that were substantially more lucrative to me than they were later on, and what they did was they retained both of us. It was not they retained Feldman, who then agreed to give me a share of whatever recovery there was.
Mr. Mesereau: Up to this very date, as you sit here today, you have a fee arrangement with Mr. Feldman, as you testified, correct?
William Dickerman: As far as I'm concerned, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You then wrote a letter to Mr. Geragos on April 8th, 2003, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Again, you discussed your clients' possessions, right?
William Dickerman: Yes. And other things as well.
Mr. Mesereau: You talk about allegations of harassment, correct?
William Dickerman: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: You say that the harassment has not ceased, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But in your internal memo to yourself of March 31st, 2003, you say that Janet has told you the harassment has ceased, right?
William Dickerman: As of that day, she said she was no longer being harassed. I guess it picked up after that, or it was a lull in the harassment.
Mr. Mesereau: You just got that information from Janet, true?
William Dickerman: Just got what information?
Mr. Mesereau: The information about harassment resuming comes from Janet, correct?
William Dickerman: Perhaps other of the family as well.
Mr. Mesereau: And nowhere in that letter of April 8th, 2003, do you mention molestation, correct?
William Dickerman: I think I can short-circuit this. I never mentioned molestation, kidnapping, alcohol or any of those.
Mr. Mesereau: False imprisonment?
William Dickerman: Or false imprisonment to Mr. Geragos. That was not the purpose of any of these letters. All of these letters were for the purpose of him getting things back to my clients and stopping the harassment.
Mr. Mesereau: So in all of these letters, you represent -- excuse me, you identify various claims against Mr. Jackson, like harassment, and wanting property returned, and not wanting unauthorized use of the Bashir material, but in none of them do you mention the things I've just described, molestation, alcohol, false imprisonment, extortion, kidnapping, correct?
William Dickerman: I've just said that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you mentioned requests for clothes, you're talking about shirts, tap shoes, underwear, socks, et cetera, right?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Obviously, you're told by your client that that stuff's missing, right?
William Dickerman: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: When you were retained by the Arvizos, was it your understanding that there was litigation going on in Great Britain?
William Dickerman: Well, I don't know exactly where, if that is on the timeline. Assuming that February 21st is when I was first retained, because I was, according to my understanding of the law, their attorney when they came to talk to me on that date, I'm sure I did not know -- I shouldn't say “I'm not sure” -- I shouldn't say “I'm sure”. I don't know. I don't recall being told about it.
Mr. Mesereau: You were considering filing a lawsuit on behalf of the Arvizos against various studios, if necessary, right?
William Dickerman: Well, again, that goes into the attorney work product, which is privileged from discovery, and so I guess I should decline to answer that.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you wrote to ABC in New York on behalf of the Arvizos on April 11, 2003, correct?
William Dickerman: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: I can show you the letter, if it's easier.
William Dickerman: Sure, why don't you.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
William Dickerman: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that letter?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that a letter you wrote to a lawyer in ABC in New York named Zucker?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: That was on April 11th, 2003, correct?
William Dickerman: I didn't look at the date, but if you say so, that's fine.
Mr. Mesereau: You made the statement, “My clients do not wish to make a claim against ABC if one is not founded”, right?
William Dickerman: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: That means they were contemplating making one if it had any justification, correct?
William Dickerman: Right. And that claim was to get Gavin's face off television and other media, to stop the exploitation.
Mr. Mesereau: You wrote to Mr. Geragos again on April 11th, 2003, right?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: The subject of that letter is your desire that no footage involving the Arvizos be used by anyone associated with Michael Jackson, right?
William Dickerman: Well, it was with regard to a contemplated program by FOX.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you learn that FOX was going to broadcast something about Michael Jackson?
William Dickerman: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: But what you told Mr. Geragos was that if there was any such program, they were not to use your clients' footage without their consent, right?
William Dickerman: No. It said that there was no consent and therefore they may not use that footage.
Mr. Mesereau: The reason for all of this, Mr. Dickerman, was the Arvizos wanted to be paid if the footage was used, right?
William Dickerman: I can't say what was in their head. That was never communicated to me --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
William Dickerman: -- ever, under any stretch of the imagination. If -- I'll tell you, if I thought so, I would have been demanding money. I would have said, “Give me a call, and let's talk about what can be done”, or we would have had a phone conversation. If you want money, this is not the way to go about it.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Dickerman, the way to go about getting money is to tell people not to use the footage and start the process of negotiation right there, correct?
William Dickerman: That's not the way that I would do it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right.
William Dickerman: Especially with a fellow who was as hostile as Mr. Geragos was. That's not at all how I would do it.
Mr. Mesereau: But you were writing to other lawyers around the country, including Mr. Zucker in New York, and lawyers in England, and lawyers in Los Angeles, in Burbank, right?
William Dickerman: I did write to other lawyers. But I can tell you this: There was never a request for money. And the reason there was no request for money is because I was never told -- in fact, much to the contrary. I was never told to seek money for any purpose from anyone with regard to Michael Jackson, period.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Mr. Masada, your client for many years, ever say words to the effect to you, “They're making millions and these poor people are getting none of the money”?
William Dickerman: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But obviously he's the one that brought them to you, right?
William Dickerman: I don't know what you mean by “obviously”, but Mr. Masada brought them to me, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. You got a letter from Mr. Geragos on April 15th asking you where to deliver the items in storage, right?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: At that point you certainly knew they were in storage, correct?
William Dickerman: I knew that he was saying that they were in storage.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, were you representing Jay Jackson at this point?
William Dickerman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: On April 16th, Mr. Dickerman, you wrote to the head of legal affairs at Granada Media Group in England, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You continued to complain about use of the footage involving the Arvizos, correct?
William Dickerman: I wouldn't say “complain”. I set forth the facts, drew conclusions and made a suggestion to Granada that their position was not right, and demanded that they cease and desist using “Living with Michael Jackson”, et cetera.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you also wrote to the Globe newspaper on behalf of the Arvizos, correct?
William Dickerman: Sounds familiar.
Mr. Mesereau: You complained about their taking photographs of the Arvizos, right?
William Dickerman: I don't recall specifically what I said in the letter. But if you show me the letter, I can answer the question.
Mr. Mesereau: I don't have that letter, but I have their response to you. Do you have your letter you wrote regarding the Globe newspaper?
William Dickerman: Give me a minute or two. I --
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
William Dickerman: What's the date?
Mr. Mesereau: I have a letter from them of April 16th, 2003. It references a letter you wrote to Michael Kahana, Esquire.
William Dickerman: That letter sounds familiar, and I don't seem to be able to put my hands on it.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you claiming that the Arvizos had a copyright interest in photographs taken of them that appeared in the media?
William Dickerman: I don't know. Depends on what the letter said.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
William Dickerman: I do recall writing to, I thought it was either The Globe or The National Enquirer regarding a photograph of Janet Arvizo that I believe to have been improperly obtained and published.
Mr. Zonen: May I have a moment with counsel?
The Court: Let's take a break.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: You may proceed.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Dickerman, Larry Feldman is known as one of the --
The Bailiff: Can you turn your microphone on?
Mr. Mesereau: Sorry. Sorry. Let me start again.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Dickerman, Larry Feldman is known as one of the top plaintiff's civil litigators in America, correct?
William Dickerman: I don't know about America, but I would say certainly California.
Mr. Mesereau: And typically, a plaintiff's civil litigator will file a lawsuit on behalf of a plaintiff, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And try to seek damages -- excuse me, try to seek monetary damages in that lawsuit, right?
William Dickerman: Yes. But I should say, while he's known as a plaintiff's lawyer, I know him also to have defended major lawsuits, and he's now with a major New York firm, so he is certainly doing a lot of defense work.
Mr. Mesereau: He started doing a lot of defense work in recent years, did he not?
William Dickerman: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: But he became very well known in Los Angeles for winning huge financial damage awards in civil cases, correct?
William Dickerman: I would say that's probably true.
Mr. Mesereau: A lot of them were types of personal injury cases, correct?
William Dickerman: I don't really know, beyond the '93 case, and I've been reading his name, and I think he was the -- the president -- I don't know if it was California State Bar or the L.A. County Bar. I don't know the specific cases. I know of one railroad case that was a big deal, but -- if I were -- if my memory were refreshed, I would know some of these other cases. But offhand I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Typically in a plaintiff's civil case, the lawyer gets a percentage of whatever the lawyer recovers for the client, correct?
William Dickerman: Only if it's a contingency case. If that's the arrangement, for a percentage. That's typical in auto accident cases. It's typical in other accident cases usually. I can't say what's typical in a molestation case, or any other particular case. It just depends on whether the plaintiff has the money to pay the fees or prefers to go on a contingency. Very often I have turned people away from contingency fees, because I tell them, “You got a strong case and you're going to be very unhappy if you pay me a percentage after I don't do $100,000 worth of work. You're better off, if you got the money, to pay me hourly to do that”. And so it varies from case to case.
Mr. Mesereau: If the client doesn't have a lot of money to pay the lawyer in a plaintiff's civil case, typically what the lawyer does is pay the costs, litigate the case, and if money comes in, either through a settlement or a judgment in a trial, the lawyer gets a percentage of that recovery, right?
William Dickerman: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: And even though you're aware of Mr. Feldman doing defense work, you're also aware of him pursuing large multi-million-dollar damage claims on behalf of civil plaintiffs, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you're aware of him doing that on behalf of plaintiffs who can't afford to pay legal fees, correct?
William Dickerman: I don't know. I don't know who pays him what or how it's done.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you produced some handwritten notes, which you were subpoenaed to produce in this case, true?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Some of the notes you produced mention the J.C. Penney case, right?
William Dickerman: I know at least one of the pages says that, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you involved in the J.C. Penney litigation on behalf of the Arvizos?
William Dickerman: Not at all.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know why you refer to the J.C. Penney case in your notes?
William Dickerman: Do you want to refer to some specific notes?
Mr. Mesereau: I have a page I can show you.
William Dickerman: I've got my originals here of a conversation that I had with Mr. Sneddon on January 9th. Is that the one you're referring to?
Mr. Mesereau: I think it's more like January 8th. It says “Liebler” in the corner.
William Dickerman: Well, at the top of that previous page it says 1-8, but near the middle it says 1-9. So I'm assuming that's a conversation I had on the 9th.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, had the J.C. Penney case concluded by the time you were hired?
William Dickerman: I know nothing about the J.C. Penney case. I know it arose, there was some conversation about it, and I have no involvement in it. It seems to me that it resolved some time ago. I don't know. One, two years or more. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that that was a plaintiff's contingency fee case where the lawyer gets a percentage of the recovery?
William Dickerman: I have no idea what their fee arrangement was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When was the last letter you sent Mark Geragos regarding the Arvizos?
William Dickerman: Well, if Exhibit 625 has all my letters to Geragos, that would be May 29, 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: And you continued to communicate with Michael Jackson's lawyer named David LeGrand, correct?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And your letters to David LeGrand went through July of 2003, correct?
William Dickerman: I don't have the date memorized. But if you've got a letter that says that, then that would be the case.
Mr. Mesereau: I have a letter July 9th. Do you want to see that?
William Dickerman: I have a letter of July 9th from him. I don't know if I wrote to him after that or not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You're continuing to write letters on behalf of the Arvizos through July of 2003, right?
William Dickerman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And to make a long story short, none of your letters ever discussed the subjects I identified before, molestation, false imprisonment, kidnapping, harm to children, that kind of thing, correct?
William Dickerman: They never did. That wasn't the purpose of any of the communications. All these communications were for the purpose of getting things done, not for making allegations about something that would be handled in some other form.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you mentioned harassment in some of your early letters, correct?
William Dickerman: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: But you never mentioned anything about alcohol in any of them, correct?
William Dickerman: Well, first of all, the Arvizos were gone from Neverland by March 26th, is my understanding. And the letters regarding humiliation, intimidation, surveillance on March 26th and thereafter was about continuing behavior after they left Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
William Dickerman: I was writing -- seeking for him to get Jackson and his people to stop doing what they were doing. To do affirmative things. Stop, return things, provide lists. Not to make allegations of things that Geragos would have nothing to do with in any event.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding at some point that furniture and material was returned to the Arvizos by Brad Miller?
William Dickerman: I -- I don't have any personal knowledge of any return of those things.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see a receipt from a storage locker?
William Dickerman: I don't recall seeing one.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that while you were representing the Arvizos, Mr. Geragos paid rent for the Arvizos in East Los Angeles?
William Dickerman: I have no such understanding.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear anything about that?
William Dickerman: About Geragos paying rent?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
William Dickerman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear about anybody associated with Mr. Jackson paying the Arvizo rent in East Los Angeles?
William Dickerman: I don't recall hearing of any such --
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever communicate about that to anybody?
William Dickerman: To the extent that I communicated about anything with my clients, that would be protected by attorney-client privilege. But I don't recall communicating about that with anybody else.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you referred any clients to Mr. Feldman since you referred the Arvizos?
William Dickerman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last talk to Mr. Feldman about this case?
William Dickerman: Yesterday.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk about what you were going to say in court?
William Dickerman: No. I think all we talked about was whether Miss Arvizo had waived the attorney-client privilege.
Mr. Mesereau: And that discussion was yesterday?
William Dickerman: And I think we said something about the -- about the fee arrangement. Specifically I can't recall. I was sitting upstairs, and I was returning calls from the office.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, as a civil litigator, you're aware that if you obtain a criminal conviction in a case of alleged child molestation, any parallel civil case is automatically won on liability, right?
William Dickerman: Actually, I've heard that recently. But not having ever been involved in such a case, I can't say that I know that for sure. I haven't researched the law on it.
Mr. Mesereau: But you certainly know that if someone has a judgment of a criminal conviction against them for sexual assault, you can use that in a civil court to establish liability and not have to incur the expenses and the time involved in a trial on liability, right?
William Dickerman: I would assume that to be the case.
Mr. Mesereau: The only issue at that point would be how much money you get in a civil courtroom, correct?
William Dickerman: I don't know if there are other issues, but I think as the judgment, that's true of any criminal action, that you don't then have to go, once again, and prove exactly what was proved with a higher burden of proof.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Dickerman, before we took the break, Mr. Mesereau had asked you about a letter that you had sent to Michael Kahan, or Kahana, and we took the break and we came back and he didn't follow up on that document. Have you had a chance to see that document dated April 3rd, 2003?
William Dickerman: I did. I found it in my file.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Dickerman asked you if, in fact, you made a demand for royalties for photographs published in the Globe; is that correct?
William Dickerman: Do you mean Mr. Mesereau?
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry, Mr. Mesereau asked that of you.
William Dickerman: I don't recall if he asked that or not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you, in fact, make a demand for royalties in this letter?
William Dickerman: No, I -- I -- I never made a demand for money on behalf of the Arvizos in any letter, in any communication, for any purpose under the sun.
Mr. Zonen: What did you ask the Globe newspaper to do in this case? I'm assuming the Globe is a newspaper.
William Dickerman: Yeah, it's a tabloid.
Mr. Zonen: What did you ask them to do in this letter?
William Dickerman: I'll quote the last paragraph. “Unless the Globe and American Media can provide valid consents, as described above”, that's referring to consent by my clients to be in the Globe, “the Arvizos demand that the Globe and American Media immediately cease and desist from using or in any other way exploiting photographs of any of my clients. “My clients further demand the Globe and American Media cease and desist from any further mention of them in any publications”, close quote.
Mr. Zonen: You asked that they take them out of the newspaper and not put them back in again, is that right?
William Dickerman: That was it. That was -- the concern was to stop exploiting them, period.
Mr. Zonen: Did not ask for money?
William Dickerman: No.
Mr. Zonen: No further questions.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down. Call your next witness.
Mr. Sneddon: The witness is on his way down, Your Honor.
The Bailiff: He is on his way.
Mr. Sneddon: He's on his way.
Mr. Mesereau: Who is the next witness?
Mr. Sneddon: Jeff Klapakis.
The Court: You know, I was thinking that between the comedians and the lawyers, I kind of like the comedians better. (Laughter.)
The Court: You don't have to respond. (Laughter.)
Mr. Auchincloss: Your Honor, while we're waiting, there are a couple of exhibits that have not yet been admitted that I'll ask to be admitted at this time.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Auchincloss: The first one is the notebook. Madam Clerk has it. It's Exhibit No. 769. That was the one notebook that counsel had an objection to, but we researched it, and I believe found sufficient foundation was laid for that.
The Court: No. 769?
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes. And I can show Madam Clerk the exhibit.
The Court: I'm sorry, are you objecting to this exhibit or just remaining --
Mr. Sanger: I'll submit it.
The Court: All right. It's admitted. Come forward, please. You're already under oath. You may be seated.
Message: JEFF KLAPAKIS Having been previously sworn, resumed the stand and testified further as follows:
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Lieutenant, you previously testified in this case?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes, I have.
Mr. Sneddon: And you understand you're still under oath?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And just as a refresher, since it's been a couple of weeks probably since you were back, would you tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury, you are employed by the sheriff's department in what capacity?
Jeff Klapakis: I am the lieutenant currently in charge of the North County Investigations Division.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to this particular case against the defendant in this case, Michael Jackson, what is your particular assignment or role?
Jeff Klapakis: I am in charge of the overseeing of the entire investigation.
Mr. Sneddon: And so Sergeant Robel, then, would work underneath you, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And under your direction?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to -- we're going to talk a little bit about forensics, okay?
Jeff Klapakis: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: And of the decisions that were made in this case with regard to the processing of certain exhibits.
Jeff Klapakis: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, generally what's the relationship between how items are sent for processing for forensic purposes in the office? Who makes that decision?
Jeff Klapakis: Well, generally the investigator who seizes an item, say pursuant to a search warrant, will -- once packaging and booking it, will fill out a form for the forensic unit to do a latent comparison, or whatever type of forensic science they want on the evidence.
Mr. Sneddon: In this particular case, who made those decisions?
Jeff Klapakis: I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to forensic examinations, are some examinations -- some items done -- forensically examined within the sheriff's department?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And are some done and sent to outside agencies?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you give the jury just a general idea of what kind would be sent out and what kind would be done inside?
Jeff Klapakis: Well, certainly an examination of items for latent fingerprints, we have that expertise within the sheriff's department. An examination of an item of evidence for biological fluids we would send out to the Department of Justice, who has that experience, where we don't.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to this particular case, the Michael Jackson case, People versus Michael Jackson, after -- you were present when the search warrant was executed on November the 18th of 2003, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sneddon: And in conjunction with that search warrant, a number of items were taken and brought back to the sheriff's department, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And shortly after that, some plan was put in effect to basically document or inventory what it was that was taken; is that correct?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And who did you assign that particular task to?
Jeff Klapakis: Well, when we seized those items, that was part of the -- I'm not quite sure I understand exactly what point in time you're talking about.
Mr. Sneddon: Right after you got back from the search warrant, okay? There were certain items that were placed into bags and certain containers that had items that hadn't been looked at yet, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you assign somebody the responsibility of going through those items and seeing what there was inside and documenting that through reports?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And who did you assign that responsibility to?
Jeff Klapakis: Detective Bonner.
Mr. Sneddon: And that particular process, from -- let's say from the day of the search till -- how long did that take?
Jeff Klapakis: Well, it's -- it's -- it's always been an ongoing process. There's lots of items of evidence.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, let me go back. Only as to the stuff taken from Neverland Valley Ranch, not as to any subsequent search warrants.
Jeff Klapakis: I would say it's taken Detective Bonner probably a couple of months to go over all that material and examine it.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, were you involved in developing a -- what might be called a forensic game plan for the processing of the items that were taken from the Neverland Valley Ranch on November 18?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes, I was part of that.
Mr. Sneddon: And what was your role in that plan?
Jeff Klapakis: As well as providing input and asking questions, I was the ultimate person to make the last decision on what we were going to do.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to the particular plan, what did you do in your capacity as the person in charge of making these decisions to help you make those kinds of decisions? Did you do any research? Did you do any checking? Did you have people do things so they could give you advice as to what the decision should be?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes, I conferred with my forensic unit. We talked about the type of materials that we had, and that we had seized from the ranch. One of the things we decided to do was to go out and get a similar type of material, adult material magazine, and practice with it. Again, we're talking about different forms of paper. We wanted to make sure that any processes that we did to develop and stabilize latent prints would not be destroyed by a previous process. So, that was one of the things that we went out and did, and practiced with that.
Mr. Sneddon: When did you commence that portion of your planning stages on the game plan?
Jeff Klapakis: Well, the first part of the game plan was to photograph some of the materials. And we started on that process. At that point in time, I stopped the forensic unit, and I asked them to go over the materials with an alternate light source in hopes of developing or finding any biological fluids.
Mr. Sneddon: And when specifically do you recall, in terms of from November the 18th of 2003, was it that the alternative light source was used to process the materials that still remained in the sheriff's department custody?
Jeff Klapakis: I'd say December or January. December '03 to January '04.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you aware of the fact, in your capacity as the lead person in making these forensic decisions, that certain items were taken to the Department of Justice in the month of February?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes, they were.
Mr. Sneddon: Was that under your -- your direction that they be taken there?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, let's go back just a second to the testing protocol. You told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury one of the things that you directed staff to do was to buy various magazines and to experiment with them; is that correct?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, was that particular experimentation or process development directly related to a particular type of forensic examination, or to more than one type that you anticipated?
Jeff Klapakis: Multiple types.
Mr. Sneddon: And what would be the multiple types that you had in mind?
Jeff Klapakis: Certainly super gluing, and using other types of -- I'm not a forensic scientist, but super gluing those would be one of them. Using a process called ninhydrin would be another one. Certainly fingerprint powder, to see if that developed any. We wanted to do -- also examine it with the naked eye as -- without any powders or anything on it by using a -- what we refer to as a Scenescope.
Mr. Sneddon: So most of the things that you just talked about were the processes directly related to the latent print examination, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, in connection with developing the process that was eventually used to process latent prints or process the magazines that may or may not have developed latent prints, did you consult with any outside agencies in the development of that protocol?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who did you consult with?
Jeff Klapakis: The FBI.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, the jury's heard a lot about several organizations, and I want to just digress for just a moment and talk about this a little bit. The FBI is a federal agency, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Or as Mr. Mesereau would call them, they're the government?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, where are their labs that deal with the fingerprint and latent examinations?
Jeff Klapakis: Quantico, Virginia.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, we've also heard another branch of government called the Department of Justice, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you use the Department of Justice, what are you talking about?
Jeff Klapakis: That's a state lab. California state lab.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to that particular lab, do they have local facilities?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes. Small, but yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do they provide a full range of forensic assistance at the local lab?
Jeff Klapakis: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Are there certain things that are sent to the local lab, but then have to be sent up to the Department of Justice elsewhere?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And to your knowledge, does the Department of Justice do latent fingerprint examinations?
Jeff Klapakis: I don't believe they do those. At least we have never used them for that.
Mr. Sneddon: Do they do DNA work?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes, they do the preliminaries. And then I believe that they send those out to Richmond, I believe.
Mr. Sneddon: In a lab in Richmond?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, after the -- you've told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury that certain materials were sent to the Department of Justice locally for a forensic examination in February?
Jeff Klapakis: That's right.
Mr. Sneddon: Those materials, particularly those materials that were contained within the Exhibit 470, which is the briefcase --
Jeff Klapakis: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- that you refer to as 317. You have the briefcase in mind?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And the materials in it that I'm talking about in mind?
Jeff Klapakis: Right.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, those particular materials, what happened to them between the time that the -- some of those materials were removed in February, what remained in the briefcase, and the other materials? Where were they, to your knowledge?
Jeff Klapakis: Well, a lot of the materials were kept at DOJ, and I believe they were locked up in a safe.
Mr. Sneddon: Those are the items removed from 317?
Jeff Klapakis: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Or 470, in our case here.
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the ones that remained in your custody and control, what happened to those?
Jeff Klapakis: I believe that those were entered into evidence in the grand jury.
Mr. Sneddon: And to your knowledge, were those retained by the grand jury?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at some point, you received the items back from the Department of Justice, the local Department of Justice, that had been sent in February. Do you recall that?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall when you got them back?
Jeff Klapakis: The latter part of July, almost August.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you got those materials back, most of those were magazines; is that right?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And was a decision made at some point after that as to how, and in what priority, certain materials would be processed?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes, based on the testing protocol that we had done, plus our conferring with the FBI, we developed our own protocol to what would work best in trying to develop and stabilize any latent prints on the magazines. And then that, I believe, was in August '04. In conference with your office, my office, we developed prioritizations of which magazines to do first.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you have an estimate of how many magazines were involved here?
Jeff Klapakis: Hundred-plus.
Mr. Sneddon: Have you ever had a situation to do latent examination on 100 magazines in a case?
Jeff Klapakis: Not every page.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you said that there was a meeting between your department and the District Attorney's Office --
Jeff Klapakis: Right.
Mr. Sneddon: -- with regard to prioritization. What decisions were made with regard to how -- what month was that?
Jeff Klapakis: August, '04.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to that, what prioritization was developed for the processing of the magazines in this case that were seized from Neverland Ranch on November the 18th?
Jeff Klapakis: Prior to -- the priority was placed on Item 317, the magazines from the briefcase.
Mr. Sneddon: And thereafter, what was the priority to be?
Jeff Klapakis: I believe -- and any other magazines found within Mr. Jackson's bedroom. Bedroom, den, room.
Mr. Sneddon: Upstairs or downstairs?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes. Bathroom as well.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you or anybody under your direction take steps to obtain the release of the magazines and the briefcase that we refer to in this case as 470, and you refer to as 317 from the grand jury?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what occurred in that connection?
Jeff Klapakis: Detective Bonner -- we had to get a court order to get it out of the grand jury. In order to do that process, we -- I believe the Court requested that we replace what we took out with photographs. Detective Bonner -- and I believe the defense had to review that as well, before we can get the court order. I sent Detective Bonner to the Court, who took photographs of the items from the grand jury. And then in October we received a court order and got the magazines out.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you've indicated to the jury that certain materials were returned to your possession and control from the Department of Justice in around July of 2004.
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you've indicated to the jury that you got some -- you got the other materials from 470 from the grand jury in October of '04?
Jeff Klapakis: Right.
Mr. Sneddon: Had some processing of latent prints begun before you actually got the remaining materials from the grand jury?
Jeff Klapakis: No. We were doing other phases of the forensics. Photographing, splitting the pages, putting them into separate binders. We were doing a lot of preprocessing before we went into the magazine.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So it was part of the protocol process for examination, but it wasn't the actual examination process. It was the prep process?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: But you had begun that process before you got the materials back from the grand jury?
Jeff Klapakis: I believe we had started that process in January, with some items that neither went to DOJ or neither went to the grand jury. So....
Mr. Sneddon: So it was just an ongoing situation?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, just to give the ladies and gentlemen of the jury some idea, you're a head -- your title is what?
Jeff Klapakis: Lieutenant.
Mr. Sneddon: And you're in charge of what?
Jeff Klapakis: Criminal Investigations Division.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, during the time from, let's say, January of 2004 till the time of October of 2004, were there other major events that required you to take personnel off this case to become involved in major investigations?
Jeff Klapakis: Especially my forensics personnel, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what was that?
Jeff Klapakis: We -- in July, we had a homicide. In September -- and this is '04. September '04, we had had an officer-involved shooting that resulted in a justifiable homicide. And in October '04, we had a -- another homicide.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to the process of beginning the examination of the magazines that you've already described, the prep, and you've already indicated when the actual latent comparison process began, did you learn at some point that there was a deadline set for the completion of the project?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall when it was you learned that there was a deadline set?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: When was that?
Jeff Klapakis: When we discussed the magazines, I believe in October, '04. But that wasn't the date. I was given December 12th, I believe.
Mr. Sneddon: So you basically had ten weeks to complete the process?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: When you found that out, did you have to bring extra personnel in to help process all these?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, the FBI has a lab in Quantico that you've said does do latent print examinations, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: It's quite a big lab, yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: And was any discussion had with regard to sending some or all of these materials to FBI?
Jeff Klapakis: We talked about it.
Mr. Sneddon: And was there a reason why it wasn't done?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes. I felt that we had already begun some processes with some of the materials. And by sending -- piecemealing out things to do, I would lose control over the evidence. And I -- I wanted to have accountability over this evidence. So I had the utmost confidence in my staff, given the time constraints, and -- to handle the job. And so I chose to keep it in-house.
Mr. Sneddon: In your experience over the years that you've dealt with the FBI in fingerprints, does it take them a while -- did they have to prioritize your request with other requests from other agencies?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes, they did.
Mr. Sneddon: And you indicated that you didn't think that the Department of Justice, the State Department of Justice, did latent examinations at this point in time?
Jeff Klapakis: I'm sure they will do them for smaller agencies. But again, it's a prioritization process, and we have -- we're a mid level agency, and we're fully capable of doing that kind of work.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you. I have no further questions.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good afternoon.
Jeff Klapakis: Good afternoon.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately 69 personnel did a search on Neverland Ranch, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: Approximately 69 persons were involved in the operation, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many were sheriffs, if you know?
Jeff Klapakis: I would say 90 percent.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever done a search with that many sheriffs before?
Jeff Klapakis: I was involved in a peripheral investigation with the City of Guadalupe where we basically took over the town, so, yes, I'd have to say.
Mr. Mesereau: Your typical homicide investigation in Santa Barbara County, you don't use 69 sheriffs for a search, do you, of a home?
Jeff Klapakis: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And your typical homicide investigation in Santa Barbara County, you don't even come close to using that number in a search of a home, right?
Jeff Klapakis: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: It was done here because Mr. Jackson is a celebrity, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: That's not why it was done.
Mr. Mesereau: The fact that Mr. Jackson is known as a megastar around the world has nothing to do with taking 69 people to search his home?
Jeff Klapakis: There were a lot of other operations going on in regards to the search that required additional personnel.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you in charge of the search?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes, sir, I was.
Mr. Mesereau: And isn't it true that your office contacted the media before the search?
Jeff Klapakis: That is not correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember an operations plan you put together to have people read before the search?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did it talk about media observing the search?
Jeff Klapakis: One of the personnel that we had there was a public information officer; that the sole purpose of having him there was, once we conducted the search, we thought the word might get out.
Mr. Mesereau: Before you conducted the search, did you make plans for any type of press conference?
Jeff Klapakis: I -- I believe the sheriff's department was involved in that process, yes. I didn't. Your question was did I.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me rephrase it.
Jeff Klapakis: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Before approximately 69 people searched Mr. Jackson's home and surrounding location --
Jeff Klapakis: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: -- plans were already in effect by the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department to conduct a press conference, right?
Jeff Klapakis: I believe that they planned that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did that have anything to do with the fact that Mr. Jackson is a megastar?
Jeff Klapakis: I believe that we do that for all newsworthy stories that we become involved in.
Mr. Mesereau: You haven't answered my question. Let me rephrase it.
Jeff Klapakis: The answer is no, then.
Mr. Mesereau: So the planning of a press conference by the sheriff's department before the search of Mr. Jackson's home and the plans specifically directed at a press conference had nothing to do with the fact that Mr. Jackson is perceived as a megastar, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: You know, I -- maybe it was. I'm not -- I'm not sure I can answer that. I mean, it was involved with who it was and the case, the type of case that we were investigating. It's a newsworthy item.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the fact that Mr. Jackson is perceived as a well-known celebrity internationally have anything to do with the number of people involved in the search?
Mr. Sneddon: Objection as asked and answered, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained. Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Who planned the press conference prior to the search?
Jeff Klapakis: Well, I'd have to say Sergeant Chris Pappas was involved in that, but I'm not -- I'm not sure. I was involved in a different aspect of it. I think that they were talking about the potential of the media getting involved in this and so they wanted to have a plan in place.
Mr. Mesereau: How fast after the search began was there any press conference?
Jeff Klapakis: Mr. Mesereau, I couldn't tell you that. I was so engrossed in the events on the ranch that I wasn't paying attention to what was going on outside.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall your participating in any press conference related to the search of Mr. Jackson's home?
Jeff Klapakis: No, I don't believe I was.
Mr. Mesereau: Was anyone from your office involved in that press conference, to your knowledge?
Jeff Klapakis: There was a press conference with -- with, I believe, the public information officer outside of our office.
Mr. Mesereau: Before you conducted your search, press releases had already been printed regarding the search, true?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object. No foundation.
The Court: Foundation is sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether or not, before you conducted the search of Mr. Jackson's home with approximately 69 personnel, any press releases had already been prepared regarding the search?
Jeff Klapakis: No, I do not know that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see such a press release at any time that you've been involved in this case?
Jeff Klapakis: It's possible I have. I can't tell you when. Certainly -- I don't believe I saw one prior to the service of the search warrant.
Mr. Mesereau: Were the people who searched Mr. Jackson's residence instructed in advance how to handle the media?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to this as immaterial, irrelevant, and beyond the scope of the direct examination.
The Court: Did you go into the search on direct?
Mr. Sneddon: I just asked him if he was there. I didn't go into any of the details of it. Just to lay the foundation for what he did to process the stuff forensically.
Mr. Mesereau: He did go into the search, Your Honor. Not the media issue, but he did go into the search.
The Court: All right. I'll allow the question. Do you want it reread?
Jeff Klapakis: Please.
The Court Reporter: Were the people who searched Mr. Jackson's residence instructed in advance how to handle the media?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who did the instructing, if you know?
Jeff Klapakis: Probably myself, Sergeant Koopmans, possibly Sergeant Robel.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you say probably yourself?
Jeff Klapakis: Probably my -- we had an operations briefing where several persons involved in different aspects of the operation gave briefings on their aspect.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you engage in any such briefing?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: When was that?
Jeff Klapakis: The morning of the search.
Mr. Mesereau: When you arrived at Neverland to commence the search, did you see any representatives of the media present?
Jeff Klapakis: I saw a car on the side of the road. There wasn't an insignia on it.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see any helicopters flying above?
Jeff Klapakis: No.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point did you see them?
Jeff Klapakis: At some point there were several helicopters there.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have any idea who notified them about the search?
Jeff Klapakis: I have no idea.
Mr. Mesereau: No clue at all, right?
Jeff Klapakis: I have none.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have any knowledge that anyone in the sheriff's department notified the media about the search of Mr. Jackson's home?
Jeff Klapakis: I have no knowledge of that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Regarding forensic work at Mr. Jackson's home, did you put into place any safeguards to avoid contamination of evidence?
Jeff Klapakis: All of our personnel are trained, so that is a safeguard in and of itself. We proceeded as cautiously as we could through this large estate. We put people in charge who had more experience than the others who directed them. And from that standpoint, I believe our investigators who were doing the actual searching were wearing gloves.
Mr. Mesereau: Is there any other safeguard that you recall putting into place before the search regarding possible contamination?
Jeff Klapakis: None -- it escapes me at this point.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know what people were wearing on their shoes before they walked through his home?
Jeff Klapakis: I don't believe they were wearing anything other than the shoes.
Mr. Mesereau: What kind of shoes were they wearing?
Jeff Klapakis: I -- I couldn't tell you.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you in Mr. Jackson's home during the day of the search?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes, I was.
Mr. Mesereau: How many people were in Mr. Jackson's home on the day of the search that were part of your operation?
Jeff Klapakis: Inside his main house?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jeff Klapakis: I would say inside his main house, we had - it changed - anywhere from 15 to 25 at any one particular time.
Mr. Mesereau: How many people in total out of the 69 that were involved in the search of Mr. Jackson's residence entered his house that day, if you know?
Jeff Klapakis: Again, the main house?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, please.
Jeff Klapakis: Well, we kept a log of people that were entering in the house. I myself entered and exited several times. So I cannot give you an adequate answer to that question.
Mr. Mesereau: It was more than 25, was it not?
Jeff Klapakis: That were conducting the search in the main house?
Mr. Mesereau: That went into his house at any time during the day.
Jeff Klapakis: I'd have to say yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it more than 45, to your knowledge?
Jeff Klapakis: I'd say that possibly could be correct. We were conducting interviews in the house, so, yes. And you're talking just our personnel or perhaps ranch employees as well?
Mr. Mesereau: No, your personnel.
Jeff Klapakis: Then I'd say you're probably -- somewhere around that.
Mr. Mesereau: Close to 45?
Jeff Klapakis: I'm assuming, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You have never been in an investigation where 45 people were allowed to walk into someone's home, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: In a home, no.
Mr. Mesereau: This was the first time, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: It's the first time I've been involved in something, or an estate this size, that we had that many people.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the fact that Mr. Jackson is a well-known celebrity have anything to do with the number of people you allowed into his home on that day?
Jeff Klapakis: No.
Mr. Mesereau: In your typical homicide investigation, 45 people don't enter a residence, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: No, they do not.
Mr. Mesereau: What were the hours you conducted that search during the first day?
Jeff Klapakis: I believe eight or nine o'clock in the morning till 11:30 at night.
Mr. Mesereau: You then conducted a second search of Mr. Jackson's home, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: In, I believe, November '04.
Mr. Mesereau: And what were the hours that you kept in that search?
Jeff Klapakis: I believe we entered about nine o'clock in the morning and left in the afternoon time.
Mr. Mesereau: That search was actually in December, wasn't it? December 4th sound right?
Jeff Klapakis: It could. It's possible, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, both of those searches were done by surprise, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Special efforts were taken to make sure that Mr. Jackson or his family did not know the search was going to be conducted, right?
Jeff Klapakis: We didn't publicize it.
Mr. Mesereau: But special efforts were taken to make sure Mr. Jackson and his family didn't know about either of these searches in advance, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: No more special than we do in any other search warrant. So I don't -- if you're -- I didn't do anything different.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me ask the question again.
Jeff Klapakis: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: I don't think I've gotten an answer, but --
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to counsel's comments, and it's argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you in charge of the second search on or about December 4th, 2004?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you agree that within minutes of the search of Mr. Jackson's residence on December 4th, 2004, the press knew about it?
Jeff Klapakis: I wouldn't say minutes. I'd say that the press eventually found out.
Mr. Mesereau: They seemed to know very quickly, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: Within an hour.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have any idea who notified them?
Jeff Klapakis: I have suspicions.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you think somebody in the sheriff's department notified them?
Jeff Klapakis: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Was a press release prepared regarding that search?
Jeff Klapakis: I don't believe so, but I'm not sure on that.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever seen a press release regarding that search?
Jeff Klapakis: I have not personally seen it, no.
Mr. Mesereau: So are you telling the jury that there were efforts made in advance to deal with the media before the first search but not before the second search?
Jeff Klapakis: What I'm telling you is that my job was not involved in that aspect of it. That was turned over to our public information officer. My responsibility was the service of the search at Neverland, and that's where my operation stayed.
Mr. Mesereau: As the one in charge of both search teams, did you have any involvement with your public information office?
Jeff Klapakis: Just notifying, notifying them that we would be conducting a search on that day, and at Neverland Valley Ranch.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever asked to review in advance any information designed to be published by your public information office about either search?
Jeff Klapakis: I do not recall -- again, I do not recall reading a press release, as you call it, prior to the service of any search warrant at Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: What safeguards were taken to preserve evidence that you seized from Neverland on November 18th, 2003?
Mr. Sneddon: Object as asked and answered.
Mr. Mesereau: I asked about contamination, Your Honor. I think my question is broader. But I could rephrase if the Court wants.
The Court: All right. Rephrase.
Mr. Mesereau: With the exception of issues of contamination, what safeguards were taken to preserve evidence seized at Neverland on November 18th, 2003?
Jeff Klapakis: Well, initially, we videotaped our entry into the residence. We also videotaped and used still photography. We also did that at the conclusion of our search. The people that entered into the residence were logged in, and logged out. Those people entering the residence that were going to conduct searches were wearing gloves on their hands.
Mr. Mesereau: Anything else you can think of?
Jeff Klapakis: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Were there any safeguards you put into place to try and preserve any DNA evidence that might exist?
Jeff Klapakis: I -- the only -- other than collecting the materials, the adult material, the magazines and the bedding from Mr. Jackson's bedroom, my only involvement was directing my forensic unit -- was assisting to get the search warrant for that material and directing them what we were to take. They handled the operation themselves.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you say you were in charge of obtaining evidence from Mr. Jackson's bedroom for possible DNA testing?
Jeff Klapakis: I was aware that there was bedding material and a bed in his bedroom that was not part of the original search warrant. I then --
Mr. Mesereau: Was that material obtained for DNA testing?
Jeff Klapakis: I believe that it was.
Mr. Mesereau: When, if you know?
Jeff Klapakis: I do not know the exact date. It was submitted to the DOJ lab, I believe.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it obtained in the search on November 18th, to your knowledge?
Jeff Klapakis: The bedding?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jeff Klapakis: Yes. There was other materials too, I believe, that were submitted.
Mr. Mesereau: And when was this material submitted to DNA testing?
Jeff Klapakis: Again, I can't give you the exact date. Sometime early part of 2004.
Mr. Mesereau: You never even asked for Mr. Jackson's DNA until December 4th, 2004, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: That was over one year after the initial search, correct?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did the FBI do any DNA testing in this case?
Jeff Klapakis: To my knowledge, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you direct the FBI to do any particular kinds of forensic analysis in the case?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And what were those types of forensic analysis?
Jeff Klapakis: They assisted us with some of the computers that we had found, particularly the Macs.
Mr. Mesereau: Anything else you asked them to do?
Jeff Klapakis: I believe I asked them to do some background information on some of the other people involved in this investigation.
Mr. Mesereau: How much time did the State Department of Justice spend on forensics testing in this case, if you know?
Jeff Klapakis: I do not know that.
Mr. Mesereau: You made some statements that the FBI assisted you, right?
Jeff Klapakis: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What does “assistance” mean?
Jeff Klapakis: Well, they provided me some information, again, on backgrounds of persons that became involved in this case. They sent out -- I believe that they call it a cart unit. That is their forensic computer examination team that assisted us in forensically examining these Mac computers that we were not able to do ourselves.
The Court: Counsel, I'd like to stop a couple minutes early, because I've been asked to. The attorneys need to talk to me. Right?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. We're going to stop. (To the jury) Tomorrow, don't come here. (Laughter.)
The Court: (To the jury) I'll see you Friday morning, 8:30.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: All right, Counsel. I was just giving Mr. Oxman some medical advice.
Mr. Sneddon: I thought you were giving him his thousand dollars back.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, do we go in your chambers? You want to go to chambers?
Mr. Sneddon: The matter I'm talking about doesn't need to go into chambers.
The Court: Did you want to go into chambers?
Mr. Mesereau: If it's the issue we talked about, I'd like to go in chambers.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay, this should be done in open court. Your Honor, I wanted to tell the Court, because I made some representations to the Court a few days ago, and I notified counsel last night, we have had to juggle the way we're going to put on evidence in this case. And I want the Court to know that we intend to start putting on the 1108 evidence on Monday. Instead of two weeks, like I said originally. And these sort of things are beyond our control. In any case, that's what we're going to do. I wanted the Court to know that, because you asked us about the instructions and stuff.
The Court: The instructions.
Mr. Sneddon: And I wanted to tell the Court that we had -- we reviewed that and we already submitted our instructions in that regard, and specifically the CALJICs, and that's what we --
The Court: Tell me what ones -- I mean, you have submitted --
Mr. Sneddon: I will single them out. I don't -- I just talked --
The Court: Friday you could give me the ones you're singling out?
Mr. Sneddon: I will, Your Honor.
The Court: And Counsel, you could give me something Friday?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: That's what I wanted to do. I wanted to make the Court aware of that. Thank you very much.
The Court: And you wanted to -- is that it?
Mr. Sneddon: I -- yeah, I guess so. Mr. Mesereau?
The Court: All right. Court's in recess.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:30 p.m.
