Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Friday, March 4, 2005 8:52 a.m.
The Court: Good morning.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning.
The Court: I'll tell you how my day started out so you get a picture of this. Every morning my research attorneys come in and meet with me to see if there's anything that needs to be done. And they came in this morning at eight o'clock. And I said, “Oh, don't worry about a thing, you know, we're ready to go”. And then I was told we have motions. So -- and I had to spend some time and that's why you had to wait. So my -- “Okay, everything's all right, it's a go”, went like that. (Laughter.)
The Court: So I apologize for keeping you waiting and we'll get started right now. Are you ready to proceed.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, Your Honor. I am. Thank you.
The Court: We'll let you use that until it squeals at you.
Mr. Sneddon: It does have a mind of its own, I'll tell you that.
Message: DAVELLIN ARVIZO Having been previously sworn, resumed the stand and testified further as follows:
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION Continued BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Good morning.
Davellin Arvizo: Good morning.
Mr. Sneddon: You told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury that you and your mother and your brother and your sister (sic) were part of a film that was done at the house of an individual by the name of Hamid Moslehi, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you remember that incident.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, on that particular evening, do you remember the filming of the -- the actual interview that was done of the family.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you participate in all of the interview.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: What happened -- about how much of it were you involved in; do you recall.
Davellin Arvizo: 20 minutes, half an hour.
Mr. Sneddon: And was that the first part or the last part.
Davellin Arvizo: I think that was the first part.
The Court: You need to speak a little louder.
Davellin Arvizo: I think that was the first part.
Mr. Sneddon: That's just perfect. If you can just keep that -- just like that. We can all hear. And when you were no longer a participant in the interview, what, if anything, did you do.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't really remember, but I was just there for like a couple minutes. Like standing on the side.
Mr. Sneddon: And then what.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember. But I don't remember being right there watching.
Mr. Sneddon: So you didn't stick around and watch it.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, you have seen the footage, the film of the interview itself, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Of you and your family.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: You were asked to review that in connection with your testimony, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, at this time I'd like to have marked as People's Exhibit No. 340 for identification, there's two CD disks, or DVD disks, I'm sorry, of the rebuttal, what's called the rebuttal, or the Hamid interview. And I think counsel and I would both agree it should come into evidence. Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, the whole tape, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: There are two disks in that, Your Honor, and I look the liberty of preloading one of them in the -- and we'll need the Court to activate the “DVD” switch up there on the bench.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, may I inquire as to what is coming into evidence. Is it one DVD. Is it the entire exhibit.
The Court: They can't hear you in the back.
The Bailiff: Nobody can hear you.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry, Your Honor. Your Honor, I'm inquiring as to what exactly Mr. Sneddon is proposing to put into evidence. Is it the entire interview, as recorded, or is it part of it.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, at this point, Your Honor, the only part of it I can lay the foundation for is the part involving this witness, because she was not present, as she just indicated, during the latter part of it.
The Court: At this time you'll just put in the part she can identify.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, sir.
The Court: We'll deal with the other part later.
Mr. Sneddon: It's my -- just to satisfy the Court and counsel, it is my understanding that the first DVD that is in the machine now involves the entire family. And that the second one ends somewhere around -- maybe eight or nine or ten minutes into it, it stops, and she is no longer a participant in it, so everybody knows. The first one would be the -- entirely is the family, all of it.
Mr. Mesereau: That's not our understanding, obviously.
Mr. Sneddon: Well --
Mr. Mesereau: Is Mr. Sneddon proposing to use as an exhibit the first DVD and just ten minutes into the second, or is he proposing to use, as an exhibit, both. I don't understand that, Your Honor.
The Court: I don't either.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm only proposing to use what I can personally lay a legal foundation for. And that is the first part of the first tape of the DVD and that portion in which this witness was a participant and knew something about. I can't ask her to authenticate something she's never seen.
The Court: You aren't answering the question, though. Does that involve all of the first DVD and part of the second DVD.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: Does that answer your question.
Mr. Mesereau: It does, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: I apologize if I didn't make that clear. All right. At this time, Your Honor, with the Court's permission and counsel's permission, I propose to play the first of the DVDs.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, excuse me just a second.
The Court: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Should we have the witness come down to view it, like we did Mr. Bashir, or would you prefer she just stay there.
The Court: Depends on how well she can see it from --
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Why don't you try looking at it. If you have a hard time seeing it, let us know. Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: Okay.
The Court: Are you going to question her while it's being played.
Mr. Sneddon: I am not. I am going to allow the thing to play in its entirety that involves her.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: There will be one break simply to change the CDs.
The Court: Which input should that be.
The Bailiff: Four. (Whereupon, a portion of People's Exhibit No. 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me, Your Honor. We can't hear what's said. Can we request it be started again.
The Court: All right. I couldn't hear it either. Do you want to start it over.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Apparently the volume would need to go up louder, but the technician told Mr. Auchincloss if he turned it up any louder that we'd get a lot of screeching.
Mr. Auchincloss: I can try it, Your Honor.
The Bailiff: I'm calling right now the technician.
The Court: Well, we can't hear it.
Mr. Sneddon: I understand that. I had no way of knowing that before we activated it.
Mr. Auchincloss: I think if we turn off these microphones, it stops the feedback loop and we can turn it up.
The Court: All right. Everyone turn off your mikes. (Whereupon, a portion of People's Exhibit No. 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.) (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I believe what happened, there's an overlap between the first and the second CDs and that this is the overlap. This did not appear in the home version. Your Honor, may the record reflect that we have stopped the first disk at 3106 and I would propose to put the second disk in at this time.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm willing, if counsel, which I think he does, would waive the foundation for the second part. We'll just play this whole disk all the way to the end.
Mr. Mesereau: That's acceptable, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. I'll approve that stipulation. And the whole second disk will be played without further foundation. (Whereupon, a portion of People's Exhibit No. 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
The Court: Can you cut it there. We'll take a break.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, for the record, that would be at 9.39 on the tape.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: We'll continue with the tape at this point.
The Court: All right. (Whereupon, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played to its conclusion for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, may the record reflect that it ends at 30:28.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: I think we can clear the --
The Bailiff: Can you turn the microphone back on.
Mr. Sneddon: Miss Arvizo, with regard to the tape we just saw, the exhibit, People's 340 - okay --.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- I asked you about when you were in Miami. Remember that.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: At the hotel there.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And I believe you told us yesterday that you were not allowed to watch the Bashir tape in Miami.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, prior to seeing this film itself -- let me put it this way: From the point that this was made at Mr. Moslehi's house on the night that you videoed it - okay. - between the time you were in Miami and the time that you went for the filming of this particular thing, had you ever seen the Bashir documentary.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Sneddon: And from the time -- when was the first time that you saw it.
Davellin Arvizo: I've never seen it to this day. I've only saw what, like, the press has aired, like the one little spot. But I've never seen it.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, to your knowledge, in your presence, from the time that you were in Miami to the time that this film was made that we just saw, did your mother ever see the Bashir documentary.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: There's a statement in this video that says that you had full access to Michael Jackson, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Is that a true statement.
Davellin Arvizo: Me. No.
Mr. Sneddon: Let me ask you a few other questions about Miami, so we can go back and focus on Miami. Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Just a couple. When you left to go to Miami, did you have an understanding with regard to how long you were going to be gone.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: When you packed your belongings to go on the trip, how many days' clothing did you take; do you recall.
Davellin Arvizo: A couple of days.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you got to Miami, you told us that on the day after you arrived, you were in Mr. Jackson's room all day that day. Correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did anybody at that time tell you that you couldn't leave.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, they just had us in the room. They didn't really say, “You go anywhere”. We had asked to go to the beach one time, and they just kept saying, “We'll do it later; we'll do it later”.
Mr. Sneddon: And who said that.
Davellin Arvizo: We'd ask Frank, and that's all I remember who we would ask.
Mr. Sneddon: “Frank” meaning Frank --
Davellin Arvizo: Tyson. Mr. Tyson.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, let's go back to the time that we're talking about; you were at the ranch, at Neverland Ranch. Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you, at any time while you were on the ranch, you personally - okay. - told anything about any threats.
Davellin Arvizo: Like --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague; and hearsay.
Mr. Sneddon: I didn't ask her what they said, Your Honor. I'm just trying to lay a foundation, there was some conversations.
The Court: The question is ambiguous. I'll sustain the objection.
Mr. Sneddon: From the time that you got back to the ranch, Neverland Valley Ranch, after you left Miami - okay. - until the time that you left to go to your grandparents' house - okay. - did you ever have a conversation with anyone at the ranch about threats.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And with whom did you have that conversation.
Davellin Arvizo: With Dieter and Frank.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. With regard to Dieter, do you recall when those conversations took place.
Davellin Arvizo: They were before the rebuttal video, but I don't know when.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall what Dieter told you about threats.
Davellin Arvizo: He said there were death threats on us.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall what else he said, if anything, about that.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember. It's too long ago.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And you said, I believe, that there was somebody else who talked to you about threats.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And who was that.
Davellin Arvizo: Mr. Tyson.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. What did Mr. Tyson say to you.
Davellin Arvizo: He said the same thing; that there was death threats on us.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to either one of those two individuals, did they ever say that there were threats against your family, threatened your family.
Davellin Arvizo: That's what the death threats were, were on our family.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to the trip to Brazil - okay. - did you ever have a conversation on the ranch between the time that you had arrived there from Miami till the time that you eventually left for the last time, did you have a conversation with Mr. Tyson about your mother and the trip to Miami.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did Mr. Tyson say to you in that connection.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Sneddon: Offered for the same reason. 1223.
The Court: I'll admit it conditionally under the instructions previously given to you.
Davellin Arvizo: He just said that my mom was being really difficult, that I need to talk to her, she's not cooperating, and stuff like that.
Mr. Sneddon: Did he call her a name.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, he called her a “B”, b-i-t-c-h.
Mr. Sneddon: Did he spell it for you or did he just say it.
Davellin Arvizo: He said it.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall whether that statement was made to you before or after the filming of the rebuttal.
Davellin Arvizo: I think it was after the rebuttal.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall where you were when you had that conversation with Mr. Tyson.
Davellin Arvizo: All I remember is I was sitting down. I don't remember where it was at.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Let me take you to the point where we were yesterday when we took our recess. Okay. I believe you indicated that you'd packed the bags, and then you had then left the ranch and gone to your grandparents.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you left the ranch and you went to your grandparents' place - okay. - did you go back to school.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what school did you go back to.
Davellin Arvizo: Mountain View High School.
Mr. Sneddon: And while you were going to Mountain View High School, with whom did you live with.
Davellin Arvizo: My grandparents.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you left the ranch, you went back to school, and you were in high school at this point, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did anything happen to you within a few days of leaving the ranch with regard to your comings and goings at school.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury what happened.
Davellin Arvizo: I was walking home from school, because my school, the Mountain View High School, is only a few blocks from my grandmother's house. And about the block right before I got to my grandmother's house, a black car pulled up to me, and it was one of Mr. Jackson's bodyguards. He tried to ask me how --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Sneddon: Offered for the same purpose, Your Honor.
The Court: Accepted conditionally.
Davellin Arvizo: He said, “Oh, how are you doing”. He was fidgeting a lot, like under the car. I couldn't see what was going on. I was just really trying to get really quick, and I said, “I got to go, I got to go”. And I just, like, walked really fast to my grandmother's gate. And when I was closing the gate, I looked back and he was videotaping me.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever have any other contact with that individual.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What was that.
Davellin Arvizo: This was the night before that incident with him driving next to me. I was laying down in my grandmother's room. This is the room that Gavin used to sleep in. It faces towards the outside and it has a big window. All of a sudden, I heard rocks that were falling on the roof, like someone was throwing them. And I ran to my grandmother and I said, “Somebody's throwing rocks”. And we went to the front door, and we just opened, like, the wood door, and we had the screen door closed. And then all of a sudden, one of the rocks hit the glass. And my grandma screamed, “Hey”, and she ran out. And I ran to go get my shoes to run out, too. And I -- all I saw was the guy running to his car and take off. And it was the same car that I had seen the next day, so it was him.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at some point after you're back at your grandmother's, the -- did your brother Gavin's suitcase arrive from the ranch.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, I think it did.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you there when that happened.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I didn't -- I got to see it afterwards, but I didn't see when it arrived.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. But was it still closed when you arrived.
Davellin Arvizo: No. It was open. My mom and everybody had went through it to see what was there.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And so your mother did that.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, yeah, with Gavin.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. But you weren't there when they did it.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Fine. Have you ever -- have you ever heard of the name Marc Schaffel.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And how have you heard of that name.
Davellin Arvizo: They just said that -- well, Frank would tell us that --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Sneddon: Offered under 1223, Your Honor.
The Court: It's -- all right. I'll admit it under the conditional limitation that I have.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: Frank had just told us that it was one of Michael's friends, and he was helping him. I didn't know anything else.
Mr. Sneddon: Had you ever been to Mr. Schaffel's house.
Davellin Arvizo: We saw the outside of it. Frank and Vinnie had drove over there with us on the car and he told us to stay in the car.
Mr. Sneddon: And did they then go into the house.
Davellin Arvizo: They went into the house.
Mr. Sneddon: Came back out.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you told the ladies and gentlemen yesterday that while you were on the ranch, that, in your opinion, there was some change in your brother's behavior. Remember that.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at the point where you -- the family was back off the ranch, now, for the last time -- okay --.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- did your brother's behavior change in any respect from the way you described it.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: What was that.
Davellin Arvizo: Gavin's a very affectionate little boy. He loves to be kissed, he loves to be held, just everything, his big sister.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; this is asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: This is a different point in time. This is not on the ranch anymore. This is after they left the ranch.
The Court: When was the point in time she was talking about yesterday.
Mr. Sneddon: On the ranch. She was talking about the isolation and the changes she saw on the ranch. Now she's talking about what happened after they left the ranch.
Mr. Mesereau: If I may, Your Honor, I think they said they were back and forth many times.
The Court: The objection is sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Yesterday, when we were talking about how things were on the ranch - okay --.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- and when you didn't see too much of your brothers at that point in time --
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: -- was the description that you gave your brother at that time and the changes that you saw, were those the changes that occurred on the ranch or after the ranch.
Davellin Arvizo: On the ranch, he was more separate from me and stuff. But when we were at my grandmother's house, I saw a lot more of how much he had changed.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, with the Court's permission, I'd like to go into that.
The Court: You may.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, would you describe to the ladies and gentlemen of the jury what changes that you observed, after he left the ranch, in Gavin's behavior.
Davellin Arvizo: He didn't want nobody to talk to him. He didn't want to be hugged. He didn't want to be kissed. He didn't want to do nothing. He just wanted to be by himself. He didn't want to talk to me. He didn't want to talk to anybody. It just hurts, because I'm his older sister.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Do you have some water up there.
Davellin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: Go ahead. Take a drink of water. We got all kinds of time.
Davellin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay now. Okay. I'm almost done.
Davellin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: I want to take you back to the time that you were on the ranch. Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: And I want to ask you, at any time while you were on the ranch, between the time that you arrived there from Miami till the time that you left for the last time to your grandparents - okay --.
Davellin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- did you ever see anything with regard to the defendant in this case, Mr. Jackson, touching your brother Gavin in an inappropriate way.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; move to strike.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Davellin Arvizo: He would constantly be --
Mr. Sneddon: Just “Yes” or “No”.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, where was that when you saw it.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, he would be constantly hugging Gavin and kissing him. So anytime I saw them, really.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you say “hugging” and “kissing”, what do you mean by “kissing”.
Davellin Arvizo: On the cheek or on the head.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you -- were there any other occasions that you remember that you saw things that you thought were inappropriate.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: It's overruled. You may answer.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, when I was in the bedroom that one time.
Mr. Sneddon: What did you see on that occasion.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, he had his arm, and Gavin was laying on his arm like this, and they were just hugging over and over. And he just was kissing him over and over on his head and --
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Thank you very much.
The Court: Okay. Cross.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, please, Your Honor. May I just take a second to bring something up.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you mind if I got my water, Your Honor, by walking around. Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: May I proceed, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning.
Davellin Arvizo: Good morning.
Mr. Mesereau: Ms. Arvizo, we've never met before, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: We've never spoken either on the telephone or anywhere else, right.
A Voice From The Audience: Louder.
The Bailiff: Please, louder.
Mr. Mesereau: I don't think --
Mr. Sanger: Just hit the tip of it.
The Court: Just talk into it.
Mr. Mesereau: Hello, hello.
The Court: Back there, in the front row that was signalling, you okay now.
Mr. Mesereau: Hello.
The Court: They're hearing you now.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Thank you, Your Honor. Let me start again.
Mr. Mesereau: We have never met before, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
The Court: Now they can't hear you.
Mr. Mesereau: We've never met before, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And we've never spoken either by telephone or in person, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Miss Arvizo, my name is Thomas Mesereau, and I just want you to know I speak for Mr. Jackson. Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: If I ask you any question and you don't understand it, please don't answer it. Just tell me you don't understand. Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: If anything I say is unclear, just don't answer. Just tell me, “It's unclear. Would you please rephrase it”. Just don't answer - okay. - unless you really understand it. Is that okay.
Davellin Arvizo: That's fine.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, yesterday you were asked by the prosecutor if you recalled a meeting at Mr. Jay Jackson's home with three social workers; do you remember that.
Davellin Arvizo: The meeting with the three social workers, I remember that, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And they were three women from the Los Angeles Department of Children & Family Services, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, that's what they told me.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were at that meeting, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were interviewed at that meeting --
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- right. And that meeting took place after the rebuttal video, that was just shown, was filmed, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: In fact, your family went from Mr. Moslehi's home, where the rebuttal was filmed, to Jay Jackson's home, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, it was like 4:00 in the morning.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. 4:00 in the morning, you went to Jay Jackson's home, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's Major Jay Jackson of the United States Army, true.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And your mother was living with him at the time, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, they would sleep over. They weren't officially living there, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, correct me if I'm wrong, didn't your mother spend more time living there than the Soto address at that point.
Davellin Arvizo: It was kind of even.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Did you live at Jay Jackson's home at that point in time.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I would go from -- I would visit there. And I would stay at the Soto apartment and I would visit with my grandparents, because they needed me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When the meeting with the three social workers from the Los Angeles Department of Children & Family Services took place, where were you living primarily.
Davellin Arvizo: Mostly with my grandparents, because she really needed me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you were spending most of the time in El Monte at that point, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Your mother was sort of splitting time between Soto Street and Jay Jackson's home, right.
Davellin Arvizo: This is what I can remember, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But the meeting with the three social workers was at Major Jackson's home, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you went right from Mr. Moslehi's home, where the video that was just shown was filmed, to Jay Jackson's home for the interview, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, because it was closer.
Mr. Mesereau: And who drove you from Mr. Moslehi's home to Major Jackson's home for that interview.
Davellin Arvizo: I think it was Vinnie.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did he drive all four of you to Major Jackson's home.
Davellin Arvizo: From what I remember, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, that interview with the three social workers, was their desire -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. The interview with the three women from the Los Angeles Department of Children & Family Services took place because they were investigating whether or not Mr. Jackson had done anything wrong and whether or not your mother was fit to be a parent, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object.
Davellin Arvizo: I didn't know --
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object. Lack of foundation that she even knows what the reason for the meeting was.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll be happy to go into that. I'll withdraw the question, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know why the meeting with the three social workers took place.
Davellin Arvizo: I didn't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk about that meeting with anyone before you attended it.
Davellin Arvizo: Um, I think so. I forgot who it was, but they had just said, “Just say nice things”.
Mr. Mesereau: But your mother asked you to do that also, didn't she.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember her asking me to say anything.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, but they were investigate -- I mean, did you think they were investigating your mother at that time.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object; calls for speculation.
The Court: She said, “I don't know”. She did answer the question.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. At that meeting, you said nice things about Mr. Jackson, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said those things because you meant them, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Kind of.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, do you remember appearing before a grand jury in Santa Barbara County.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't you tell the grand jury in Santa Barbara County that you meant exactly what you said about Mr. Jackson.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't say these nice things about Mr. Jackson because someone else asked you to, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, that's why I say “I don't know”, because things -- I just remember later on.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, let me just try and explore that a little bit.
Davellin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the Santa Barbara Grand Jury that you said nice things about Mr. Jackson, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were asked by the prosecutor why you said those things, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You said you said those things because you felt that way towards Mr. Jackson, right.
Davellin Arvizo: At that moment in time I did, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: So you didn't say the things you said about Mr. Jackson because somebody had told you to say those things, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: I really don't remember. It's so long ago. I mean, I can't remember every little detail.
Mr. Mesereau: But do you remember that meeting at all.
Davellin Arvizo: There was so many meetings. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't remember the meeting at Jay Jackson's house with the three social workers.
Davellin Arvizo: I remember that, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember who was at the meeting.
Davellin Arvizo: It was me -- who first arrived was Azja and her little baby, and then Mr. Jackson's bodyguard. And then the three ladies.
Mr. Mesereau: And did Azja arrive by herself or did someone bring her there, to your knowledge.
Davellin Arvizo: She drove over there.
Mr. Mesereau: So Azja drove to Jay Jackson's home with her child, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Azja is Actor Chris Tucker's girlfriend at the time, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know why Azja drove to Jay Jackson's home at that point.
Davellin Arvizo: For support. She's our very close friend.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Is she still your close friend.
Davellin Arvizo: No. Well, how can -- all this is causing friction. Nobody knows what to think.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But is she still your close friend.
Davellin Arvizo: We don't talk to her right now, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you talk to Chris Tucker at all at the moment.
Davellin Arvizo: Not right now.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last talk to Chris Tucker, if you remember.
Davellin Arvizo: Don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last talk to Azja.
Davellin Arvizo: When I was at the rebuttal film.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you testified yesterday that you saw the three social workers arrive, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You were there when they came into your -- to Jay Jackson's apartment, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you introduce yourself to them.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Did your mother introduce herself to them.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did your brothers introduce themselves to the three social workers.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And had you discussed with your mother before that meeting anything that you were going to say at the meeting.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember that, no.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't remember that at all.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember discussing what you were going to say at that meeting with anyone.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Don't remember at all.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Well, you said yesterday you remembered somebody with a tape-recorder in another room, or something that looked like a recorder, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Had you gone over that question and answer with the prosecutor before you testified.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, yeah, when they first asked me what it was.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet with any member of the prosecution team last night.
Davellin Arvizo: No. Not last night, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet with any member of the sheriff's department last night.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet with any attorney last night.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: At any point, did you discuss how much of that rebuttal video you were present at with anyone from the prosecution team.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, at some point did you tell Mr. Sneddon or anyone associated with Mr. Sneddon that you were gone for part of what appeared on that tape.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, when I was at the rebuttal, I knew there was a moment that I wasn't there, because I was there.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last discuss that with any member of the prosecution team.
Davellin Arvizo: I -- I called someone and told them that I wasn't in the next part and asked them if I was going to be asked about that, because I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you make that call.
Davellin Arvizo: Last night.
Mr. Mesereau: And who did you call.
Davellin Arvizo: Steve Robel.
Mr. Mesereau: And he's a Santa Barbara Sheriff.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he call you or did you call him.
Davellin Arvizo: I called him. Because I was concerned, because I didn't want to be questioned on something I don't know about.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, how did you know the rebuttal tape was going to be shown today.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, because they gave me the CD to review so I could refresh my memory. Nobody was sitting there with me.
Mr. Mesereau: And who was “they”.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, Steve Robel brought it over to me, and I reviewed it.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that last night.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he bring it to your home.
Davellin Arvizo: He brought it to where I was staying at.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object to that question, as to where the witness is, for purposes of security and safety.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm not -- I object to Mr. Sneddon's statement, that he's suggesting things that aren't true, Your Honor. But I'm not going to ask her her address anyway.
Mr. Sneddon: You asked where the home was.
The Court: No, he didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: No, I didn't.
The Court: Read the question back. The objection is overruled. He didn't ask that. You misheard. Read the question back.
The Court Reporter: Did he bring it to your home.
The Court: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you have a discussion with this sheriff last night.
Davellin Arvizo: No, he just handed me the CD.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he say anything to you at all.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he tell you it was likely to be shown today.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, he said it was kind of going to be shown eventually, so they just wanted me to review it.
Mr. Mesereau: And was that all he said.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet with any member of the prosecution team to discuss what you were going to say in court in this case.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, we did meet once or twice.
Mr. Mesereau: And who did you meet with.
Davellin Arvizo: Mr. Sneddon.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did that take place.
Davellin Arvizo: Couple of days ago. Don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he come to where you were staying.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I went to where he was.
Mr. Mesereau: Did someone pick you up and bring you to see Mr. Sneddon.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who was that, if you know.
Davellin Arvizo: I think it was Steve Robel's wife.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And was anyone in the meeting besides you and Mr. Sneddon.
Davellin Arvizo: Mr. Robel would come in and out, but it was mainly me and Mr. Sneddon.
Mr. Mesereau: And was any other prosecutor there; do you know.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Just you and Mr. Sneddon at times, and no one else present.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if that conversation was recorded.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did anyone tell you it was going to be recorded.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How long did that meeting with Mr. Sneddon take place.
Davellin Arvizo: Like 15 minutes.
Mr. Mesereau: Only 15 minutes.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss what you were going to be asked in court.
Davellin Arvizo: No. He just -- he just helped me refresh my memory.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, how did he help you refresh your memory.
Davellin Arvizo: They just gave me what I said.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you mean police reports.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it be transcripts.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he tell what you transcripts he was giving you to read.
Davellin Arvizo: Just of the grand jury, and that's all I remember. That's the only one.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did he give you any materials to take home with you.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you took the transcript home with you that Mr. Sneddon gave you.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was your grand jury testimony.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you read it.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you read anything else to prepare for your testimony in court.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How many times have you met with Mr. Sneddon regarding this case.
Davellin Arvizo: Four times. Five times.
Mr. Mesereau: And can you recall approximately when those meetings were.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember. But it wasn't till a while.
Mr. Mesereau: Have they been in the last year.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, those two meetings that I had with him, but I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: At your meetings with Mr. Sneddon, other than the one you just described, has anyone else been present.
Davellin Arvizo: At the beginning, they were the sheriff's department talking to us.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How about the other meetings.
Davellin Arvizo: It was mainly just the officers.
Mr. Mesereau: Other than the last meeting you described where Mr. Sneddon was meeting with you at times alone, have you ever met with him alone before.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the first time he ever met with you alone.
Davellin Arvizo: I mean, there was no door. I mean, they could walk in and out. There was a kitchen right in front of us. It wasn't like restricted.
Mr. Mesereau: I didn't ask you that. But I just want to ask you if that was the only meeting you ever had with Mr. Sneddon where you spent a lot of time with him alone.
Davellin Arvizo: It was --
Mr. Sneddon: Objection. The classification is it was “a lot of time”. She described it as 15 minutes. It's a misstatement of the testimony. I object.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Davellin Arvizo: It wasn't a lot of time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Is that the only time that you ever met with Mr. Sneddon alone to talk about your testimony.
Davellin Arvizo: It wasn't alone. Mr. Robel would come in. And time alone with Mr. Sneddon was like five minutes, if you count the time that Mr. Robel was there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you time it.
Davellin Arvizo: No. I mean, it was a short time. It was just practically there, sat down, “Are you feeling okay”. You know, that's it.
Mr. Mesereau: Has Mr. Sneddon ever had what looked like an outline in front of him that he asked you questions from.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, yeah. He had just -- I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he have a pad in front of him.
Davellin Arvizo: He had paperwork in front of him, but I don't know what it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he ask you questions from the paperwork.
Davellin Arvizo: Not in the last two days. He would just ask me questions.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you say, “The last two days”. Did you talk to him more than once during the last two days.
Davellin Arvizo: No. Well -- no, I've only met with him two times during this whole time that I've been here.
Mr. Mesereau: Has anyone else asked you questions during the last two days.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, why did you say the last two dates.
Davellin Arvizo: I was thinking about the last two meetings, not the last two days. Because we didn't even meet at all yesterday. We didn't meet at all the day before, so --
Mr. Mesereau: Have you met with any member of the Santa Barbara Sheriffs in the last two days, other than Mr. Robel last night.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Has anyone called you on the phone to talk about what you were going to say in court.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you discussed what you were going to say in court with your mother.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Not at all.
Davellin Arvizo: Not at all.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss what you were going to say before the Santa Barbara Grand Jury with your mother.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Never talked about it once.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you arrive to testify before the Santa Barbara Grand Jury.
Davellin Arvizo: One of the sheriff's department officers came and picked me up.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss what you were going to say in court with either of your brothers.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Just didn't talk to one of them.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: At any time.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss what you were going to say before the Santa Barbara Grand Jury with any of your brothers.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Not once.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Did your brothers ever call you to talk about what they were going to say.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: So are you in contact with your brothers.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Regular contact.
Davellin Arvizo: Of course.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you in contact with your mother.
Davellin Arvizo: Of course.
Mr. Mesereau: Is it regular contact.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, of course.
Mr. Mesereau: And yet, during all of this regular contact, nobody has even discussed what was going to happen in this courtroom.
Davellin Arvizo: What's more important to us is our feelings and if we're okay. That's what's important to us.
Mr. Mesereau: So no one has even discussed it, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Not once.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: How often do you talk to your mom.
Davellin Arvizo: Every day, more than -- probably like every hour. We talk a lot.
Mr. Mesereau: Every hour.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, we talk a lot. We're very close.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Would it be accurate to say you talk to her maybe 12 to 15 times a day.
Davellin Arvizo: Probably a little less, but, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how long have you talked with her on that type of basis. Has it gone on for years.
Davellin Arvizo: Oh, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: You and your mom are very close, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you and your brothers, Star and Gavin, are very close.
Davellin Arvizo: Even closer.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you talk to them every day as well.
Davellin Arvizo: Of course.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately how many times a day do you talk to Gavin.
Davellin Arvizo: Because he's going to school, he's in stuff right now, I can't really talk to him. But I called him before he went to school today, and I try to catch him before he goes to sleep.
Mr. Mesereau: And how about Star.
Davellin Arvizo: I talk to him regularly too, as much as I could. They're very busy little boys.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you talk to them every single day.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, I live with them.
Mr. Mesereau: Live with them now.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Where do you live with them. Excuse me, I'm not supposed to go into your address. Pardon me. Strike that.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you discussed what you were going to say today with Jay Jackson.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: At any time.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever discussed this case with Jay Jackson.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever discussed this case with your mother.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever discussed this case with Gavin.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever discussed this case with Star.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: At the home that you share with your mom, Gavin and Star, have you ever seen any documents about this case.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: None.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, just what was given to us for us to think, but we've never seen them. We just saw what they came in, but we've never read through each other's stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Let me just explore that, if I can. You saw documents come in some type of package; is that correct.
Davellin Arvizo: We all got separate packages, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And are you saying you never looked at what was in those packages.
Davellin Arvizo: Just of what was for us.
Mr. Mesereau: And were there packages for your mom.
Davellin Arvizo: No. They all came in separate packages. They had our names on them.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How many packages are we talking about.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, there's five of us. So five.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So five people got five separate packages of documents.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, was each of the five people's names on different packages.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And were those packages given to the people whose names were on them.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was there one that said your name on it.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ever discuss any of those documents with anyone else at home.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never talked with Jay Jackson about the documents.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Or your mom.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Or Gavin.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Or Star.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never said anything to them like, “What did you receive”.
Davellin Arvizo: No. We knew they were documents of the case. We know we're not supposed to talk to each other, so we don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Don't say a word to each other at all.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you currently represented by an attorney.
Davellin Arvizo: Other than these, no. Other than these, not that I know of.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, is your mother currently represented by an attorney.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I know of. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, is Gavin currently represented by an attorney.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, is Star currently represented by an attorney.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know an attorney named Larry Feldman.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How do you know an attorney named Larry Feldman.
Davellin Arvizo: We met with him one time a long time ago.
Mr. Mesereau: And when was that.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me just be clear about this. You don't know one way or the other whether your mother currently has an attorney.
Davellin Arvizo: We don't -- I don't know -- I don't talk to my mom about that stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you talk to Gavin about whether or not he has an attorney.
Davellin Arvizo: We don't talk about that stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you talk to Star.
Davellin Arvizo: That's not our concern. We don't --
Mr. Mesereau: Do you talk to Star about whether or not he has an attorney.
Davellin Arvizo: We don't talk about that.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know one way or the other.
Davellin Arvizo: We don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You've had attorneys before, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever gotten advice from a lawyer.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never at all.
Davellin Arvizo: No. Other than the city attorney that was involved with the -- the abuse my father put on us. That's all I've --
Mr. Mesereau: That's the only attorney you've ever spoken to.
Davellin Arvizo: And we have a -- a -- I -- against my father. That's the only attorney I know of.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember visiting Kaiser Permanente Hospital for a consultation with a doctor on June 26th, 2003.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know what that is.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember going to Kaiser Permanente to complain about headaches.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were with your mom, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No, that was the time that I was living with my grandmother. And I went with my grandmother.
Mr. Mesereau: Did your mother go to the hospital with you.
Davellin Arvizo: No, it was just me and my grandmother.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk to a doctor.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling the doctor that you had headache problems.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, it was due to, like, stress and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told the doctor you got three hours of sleep per week, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told the doctor you got 12 hours of sleep during weekends, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And when he asked you to explain your family situation, you said you couldn't do it because a lawyer told you not to explain it, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, yeah. I was scared that somehow my father would do something, so I just said that.
Mr. Mesereau: Who was the lawyer that told you, “Don't tell the physician what's going on at home”.
Davellin Arvizo: That's what I'm telling you, I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you told that to the physician, didn't you.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember. Probably, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And your mother was with you with the physician, true.
Davellin Arvizo: No, my grandmother was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You went to that physician because you had a civil lawyer representing you at the time, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, had you spoken to an attorney named Dickerman at that point.
Davellin Arvizo: We spoke once, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when that was.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And after meeting with Mr. Dickerman, you met with Attorney Larry Feldman, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And after meeting with Attorney Larry Feldman, you went to Kaiser, true.
Davellin Arvizo: That had nothing to do with it.
Mr. Mesereau: I have to ask you, just -- if you can, just answer the question. After meeting with Attorney Feldman, you went to Kaiser, true.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you went to Kaiser because you were putting together a claim for damages, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: No. This had nothing to do with it. I had -- I still get those headaches to this day. Those are headaches of lack of sleep. I don't -- it's hard for me to sleep.
Mr. Mesereau: Why would you tell a physician, “I can't tell you the reasons because an attorney told me not to”.
Davellin Arvizo: Because I'm afraid of my father. I don't know what he would do. I don't know. I was scared. I was little then.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But your mom accompanied you, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Well --
Mr. Sneddon: Object as asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you the medical report.
Davellin Arvizo: That's fine.
Mr. Mesereau: May I show it to you.
Davellin Arvizo: I never saw it before. I only saw when the doctor was writing it.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: I'm not sure you've laid a foundation yet.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Would it refresh your recollection that your mother was with you when you told the doctor, “A lawyer told me not to discuss it”.
Davellin Arvizo: My grandmother was there. I was living with my grandmother. My mom was not with me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So if I showed you the report that says your mother was there, that wouldn't change your mind. Is that what you said.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, I call my grandmother my mother. And because of like -- because I was underage, they wouldn't allow my grandmother sharing things because, like, she's a grandmother and the mother has to be present, so I would just say she's my mother.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You call your mother your mother and your grandmother your mother.
Davellin Arvizo: I call my grandmother “Ma”.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you tell the physician at Kaiser that your grandmother was with you, not your mother.
Davellin Arvizo: I told her I was with my ma.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: How she put it down, I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you were talking with this physician, you explained that your brother Star had a cyst, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You explained your brother Gavin was recovering from cancer, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said your mother has vertigo, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said all of this after meeting with Attorneys Dickerman and Feldman, right.
Davellin Arvizo: They -- no. My mom has always had vertigo. She was just asking me, like, history and to find out why I was having those headaches.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I'd like to ask you a little bit about your testimony yesterday. Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know how many times in total you've been to Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: About four times, I think. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know how many times were before the Bashir documentary and how many times were after it.
Davellin Arvizo: Counting the Bashir documentary, that's four. I wasn't counting that one. Counting the Bashir documentary, that's four.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Would that be four visits to Neverland before the Bashir documentary, or four after it, or what would it be.
Davellin Arvizo: That's three before the Bashir documentary.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Three before the Bashir documentary aired --
Davellin Arvizo: If you count the Bashir documentary, that's four.
Mr. Mesereau: That would be -- I'm just trying to get it clear, and I apologize if I don't understand. Would it be three visits that you made to Neverland before the Bashir documentary, and one after the Bashir documentary.
Davellin Arvizo: No. It was three before the Bashir documentary.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Are they all of your visits to Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes. In total, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: So no visits to Neverland after the Bashir documentary.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, there were.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Can I ask you how many times you went after the Bashir documentary, if you know.
Davellin Arvizo: About three. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately three, you think.
Davellin Arvizo: I think. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: So you think you've been to Neverland about seven times.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, if you count going back and forth, it's more than -- it's only -- if you count all those back and forth, it's only one after the Bashir documentary.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you did testify before that no one in your family watched the Bashir documentary, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall on the videotape your mother talking about her holding her hand with Gavin like they did in the Bashir documentary.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: She must have learned that by watching the Bashir documentary, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, how did she learn that, if you know.
Davellin Arvizo: Dieter had told us to -- to do that somehow, because they wanted to erase what everybody had saw on the Bashir documentary.
Mr. Mesereau: But her comment - and it seemed to be a spontaneous comment - was, “We want to hold hands like in the Bashir documentary”, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, well, Dieter told her to do that. Bradley Miller was standing right there, and she knew anything that we didn't do and say, that Bradley Miller would go and tell Dieter.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when the Bashir documentary came out, you testified the press -- excuse me, representatives of the media approached your home, right.
Davellin Arvizo: The Soto apartment, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see them.
Davellin Arvizo: I saw a glimpse of them.
Mr. Mesereau: What do you mean by that.
Davellin Arvizo: Because we closed the door.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did anyone in your home speak to them.
Davellin Arvizo: I think Jay did for a moment.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have any idea what they talked about.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you hear what they talked about.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You learned at some point that your family was being represented in a lawsuit in England, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You never heard anything about that.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear your mother even talk about that.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know for sure that Gavin has never looked at the Bashir documentary.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And how do you know that.
Davellin Arvizo: From what he's told me. Well, I'm constantly with him, and we haven't seen it.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Star.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't think so either.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you 100 percent sure that Star has never seen the Bashir documentary.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, if they've seen it at school. There's no way they could see it at school, so I don't think they've seen it.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know for sure your mother's never seen it.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't think so. I'm with my mom always.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, there are times you've lived separately from your mother, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, but I would visit almost every day.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So, realistically, you don't know for sure if your mother had ever seen it.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, they would talk about it.
Mr. Mesereau: They would talk about it.
Davellin Arvizo: If they knew -- if -- like, if they had seen it, they would have mentioned it somehow. And nobody did.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever discussed the Bashir documentary with your mom.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever discussed the Bashir documentary with Gavin.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And have you ever discussed the Bashir documentary with Star.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And have you ever discussed the Bashir documentary with Jay Jackson.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you all sort of agreed not to talk about the Bashir documentary.
Davellin Arvizo: We just don't really like to talk about anything associated with this. It just upsets us.
Mr. Mesereau: And you say you've only met with Mr. Feldman once.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Mr. Dickerman.
Davellin Arvizo: Once also.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you don't think Mr. Feldman still represents you at all, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. But you know that your mother has had meetings with him, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. I work. I'm a full-time student. I'm a full-time cashier. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if your mother has ever gone to Beverly Hills to meet with him.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You never heard anything about that.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never been discussed in the home.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. The prosecutor showed a photograph of your family with Kobe Bryant; do you remember that.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know when that photograph was taken.
Davellin Arvizo: That was during Gavin's cancer.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know where it was taken.
Davellin Arvizo: At the comedy camp. Well, not the comedy camp. At The Laugh Factory.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, have you ever associated with Mr. Bryant, other than having the picture taken.
Davellin Arvizo: I wasn't there. I just knew because Gavin was excited that he met him.
Mr. Mesereau: But do you know if Gavin or your mother have ever been with Mr. Bryant, other than when they had a photo taken with him.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, David and Gavin and Chris Tucker had went to a Laker game before too.
Mr. Mesereau: To see Kobe play.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, and Chris had taken them.
Mr. Mesereau: Taken them into where.
Davellin Arvizo: Taken them to the locker room, and they had talked and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: But you consider -- or at least at the time you considered Chris Tucker to be a close friend, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You never considered Kobe Bryant to be a close friend, did you.
Davellin Arvizo: No. Just -- it made Gavin happy to know that he knew that person.
Mr. Mesereau: Right. But he never was somebody that your family hung out with.
Davellin Arvizo: Not as close as Chris Tucker, no. We never hung out.
Mr. Mesereau: Never hung out with Kobe Bryant, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And you mentioned Fritz Coleman.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Fritz Coleman is a weatherman in Los Angeles, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And he does comedy stuff at The Laugh Factory, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's where you met him, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you consider Fritz Coleman to be a close friend of the family.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you mean by “close friend”.
Davellin Arvizo: He would come over and visit, and we'd laugh, and, you know, spend time.
Mr. Mesereau: And where would he come to visit.
Davellin Arvizo: The East L.A. apartment.
Mr. Mesereau: That's on Soto Street, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times did you see Fritz Coleman at Soto Street.
Davellin Arvizo: Two, three times, that I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see him at Jay Jackson's place.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see him at your grandmother's in El Monte.
Davellin Arvizo: No, we didn't live there. He would only go to the East L.A. apartment.
Mr. Mesereau: But you saw him at Louise Palanker's home.
Davellin Arvizo: No, we never went to Louise's house.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever go to Louise's house at all.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, she gave your family $20,000.
Davellin Arvizo: No, she gave us ten.
Mr. Mesereau: Two checks for $10,000, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know anything. You got to ask my mom.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you knew she'd given a large sum of money to your family, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that all that money was spent on the room, to make it ready for Gavin.
Davellin Arvizo: It was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Is that what your mother told you.
Davellin Arvizo: No. That's what I saw.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you saw the money spent for that purpose.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever talk to Louise Palanker about whether the man who redid that room was actually paid.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. I wouldn't talk to her about that kind of stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: You never saw anybody pay the person who renovated that room, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I just saw him come, and he did the floors and the closet and everything.
Mr. Mesereau: Right. Right. But if he was paid or not, you don't know.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: And you don't know what the total cost was, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, all the little stuff that was in there, it was -- I guess it was a lot.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you don't really know how much, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Like the air conditioning was, like, $2,000. And the bed itself was a lot. And then the linoleum, the closet, the stereo, the T.V., the DVD player. The whole room was repainted. There was blinds put up. There was everything redone in the whole room. It's totally different from the whole house.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn that the man who renovated that room wasn't paid at all.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know anything.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Because you weren't in charge of the money, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know who was.
Davellin Arvizo: I think David was.
Mr. Mesereau: And David was your father, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And he's the man that your mother refers to as “the biological father”, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. To your knowledge, did Fritz Coleman get involved in a fund-raiser for Gavin at The Laugh Factory.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know anything about that.
Davellin Arvizo: Huh-uh.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever involved in any fund-raising activities for Gavin.
Davellin Arvizo: The only one that I went to was the one that I met Chris at. And that was really just a graduation.
Mr. Mesereau: That's at The Laugh Factory.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was it a fund-raiser.
Davellin Arvizo: It was just a graduation, like how we had, like how we were little comedians. That's what it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And you did indicate that you knew Jamie Masada.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Jamie Masada introduced you to a bunch of celebrities, right.
Davellin Arvizo: They would come to our little classes that we had.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet Mike Tyson at one point.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you meet Mike Tyson.
Davellin Arvizo: Through Chris Tucker.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he take you to Mike Tyson's home.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know when that was.
Davellin Arvizo: That was during -- when Chris had took us to the Rush Hour 2 in Vegas.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you meet Adam Sandler.
Davellin Arvizo: We never met him.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet Jim Carey.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Your brother tried to meet Jim Carey, didn't he.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah. That's one of his favorite comedians, too.
Mr. Mesereau: Right. Right. Okay. Now, other than Chris Tucker, who you felt was a close friend, and Michael Jackson, who was a close friend, are there any other celebrities - I guess that would include Fritz Coleman - that you considered close friends at this point in time.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, Fritz also. And that's it, that I can remember. Well, George Lopez, too. George Lopez was a close friend of ours, too.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you meet George Lopez.
Davellin Arvizo: Through the comedy camp also.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you go to his home.
Davellin Arvizo: We never went to his home. He would come and visit Gavin at the hospital.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he ever come to your home, to your knowledge.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if George Lopez was involved in any efforts by your mother to raise money.
Davellin Arvizo: Any efforts to raise money was by my father. And I don't know what he would do. He's just a crazy man. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you -- are you aware of whether or not your mother and Gavin called Jay Leno on the phone to ask for money.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know anything about that.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember that. I was never told anything like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know anything about the Santa Barbara Sheriffs recording that conversation.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So as far as you know, your mother never tried to raise money from anybody.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You're saying she never tried to raise money from anybody, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that what you're saying.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Your mother never asked for money from anyone to help Gavin at any time, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never saw that, never heard about it.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Are you saying, under oath, that the only person in your family that tried to raise money for Gavin was your father, David.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, he would pester a lot of people. And then when my mom would find out, she would get kind of upset about it.
Mr. Mesereau: Really. Your mother would get upset if she thought David was trying to raise money.
Davellin Arvizo: He's just -- I don't know, he's a weird man.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, who asked Louise Palanker for money; do you know.
Davellin Arvizo: She gave it to us. We never asked her for anything. She gave it to us.
Mr. Mesereau: She just volunteered it.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see your mother talking to Louise Palanker.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, they would talk on the phone once in a while, yeah, as friends do.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you saw the rebuttal video, obviously, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've seen it before, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, yesterday I saw it.
Mr. Mesereau: Yesterday. And you see your mother saying that, “When we were” -- words to the effect that, “When we needed help, nobody would help us”. Remember that.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And she says, “Department of Children & Family Services wouldn't help”, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: She says, “Nobody would help and we had to eat cereal”, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you telling the jury you've never seen your mother ask for help.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never in your lifetime.
Davellin Arvizo: No, she was just trying to make it more dramatic, because that's what they wanted.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. So your mother really wasn't being honest when she gave that talk about, “Nobody would help us when we needed help”; is that right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, she was just trying to make it more dramatic, because that's what they wanted.
Mr. Mesereau: So are -- okay. So as far as you're concerned, that was all memorized.
Davellin Arvizo: Not memorized, but everything -- we had been given a script. You can even see at the end, with the guy holding it.
Mr. Mesereau: Right. There's a sheet with some questions on it, right.
Davellin Arvizo: That was the script also.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Are you saying that everything you all said on that tape was memorized word for word.
Davellin Arvizo: It wasn't memorized, but it was just things, you know, “You got to remember this, you got to remember that”. I'm not going to remember everything right now.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, did your mother, in your opinion, volunteer any of the comments she made on that video.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. You gotta ask her.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever discussed this video with your mother.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever discussed this video with Gavin.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever discussed it with Star.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever discussed it with Jay Jackson.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Not at any time.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, did you see your mom last night.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see your mom in the last two days.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: But you watched this last night, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you watch it at home.
Davellin Arvizo: I watched it where I'm staying at.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Did you watch it with anyone.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I was by myself in the room, with the door shut.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. It was delivered to you by Mr. Robel, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever discussed anything that's said in this video with your father.
Davellin Arvizo: My stepfather --
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Davellin Arvizo: -- or David.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever discussed anything that's in this video with the sheriffs.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, other than with -- they asked us questions about it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But never with anyone in your family.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Just like Bashir; you never discussed Bashir with anyone in your family, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Never. All right. Now, when you first went to Neverland, who first told you you were going to Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember. All's I know is that we went. It was a long time ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So the first time you went, it's unclear to you, at least this morning, whose idea it was, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you remember how you got there the first time.
Davellin Arvizo: A limo came and picked us up.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember who was driving the limousine.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When did you first talk to Michael Jackson.
Davellin Arvizo: That day.
Mr. Mesereau: And was that the first time you had seen him.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You indicated yesterday that you stayed in a guest cottage, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And can you describe the room you stayed in.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, it has two beds. A window faces the main house, and then there's another window to the left. There's a desk under that window. There's a rest room to the right.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever go into your mother's room --
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- that visit.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was the room next to yours.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes. For that -- which visit are you talking about.
Mr. Mesereau: The first one.
Davellin Arvizo: The very first one.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Davellin Arvizo: That's with David and my mom. Yes, I went into that room.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever go into David's room.
Davellin Arvizo: They stood together.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, correct me if I'm wrong, did you tell the jury that the first day you arrived at Neverland, you all had dinner in the main house.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And your father, your mother, Star, Gavin and you had dinner in the main dining room in that main house, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was Michael Jackson there.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was anyone else there.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: There was certainly kitchen help around, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, they would come in and out.
Mr. Mesereau: Right. And that was the first time your family ever had dinner with Michael Jackson, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And without going into what anyone said, did you tell the jury yesterday that the first time you had dinner with Michael Jackson and the family, you discussed whether Gavin was going to stay in the main house.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah. At that dinner, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: The first time you ever had dinner with him.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
The Court: Counsel, sorry to interrupt.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh. Okay. Okay.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: You may proceed.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Ms. Arvizo, do you remember on December 20th, 2003 -- excuse me, excuse me. Pardon me. Not December. Pardon me. Do you remember, in your meeting with the social workers, saying that you often take a girlfriend with you to Neverland to keep you company.
Davellin Arvizo: No. No one ever went with me at Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you the social workers' report.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, I know I said that, but that's not true.
Mr. Mesereau: But you did say that --
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: -- to the three social workers from the Los Angeles Department of Children & Family Services.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you also told them that you denied that your mother Janet had ever neglected you, right.
Davellin Arvizo: My mom never neglected us.
Mr. Mesereau: But my question is, you told the three social workers that your mother had never neglected you, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told the social workers your mother, “Always knows what's going on when she is at Neverland with us”, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: You told them that.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that true.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: That was a lie.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And you're telling us today that when you told those three social workers that you'd bring a girlfriend with you to keep you company at Neverland, that was a lie, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah. There was no one to take, in the first place.
Mr. Mesereau: You told those social workers, “Michael is like a father to all of us”, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the social workers, “Michael is so kind and loving”, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember a lot of things I said. It was a really long time ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you the report.
Davellin Arvizo: It's not me writing it, so I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, would you want to give it a chance.
Davellin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you want to see it.
Davellin Arvizo: It's fine. You're reading it anyways.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't want to see it.
Davellin Arvizo: No, that's fine.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you don't want to see if it refreshes your recollection.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, the lady wrote it, so it's not going to refresh anything.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't want to try.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as argumentative.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I'll move on, Your Honor.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the social workers your father threatened to kill your mother, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object as hearsay. He's reading the report into the record, here.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer. You may answer.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the social workers you'd gone to Neverland several times with your brothers, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember. I don't know what was said on that report.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you like to see the report to see if it refreshes your recollection.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Don't want to even look at it.
Davellin Arvizo: It's not my writing, it's not what I wrote, so it's not going to refresh my memory.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell the social workers, “I've never seen Michael do anything sexually inappropriate with Gavin or Star”.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember what I said.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you --
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: -- that part of the report.
Davellin Arvizo: No. It's not --
Mr. Mesereau: It just wouldn't.
Davellin Arvizo: It wouldn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you discussed what you were going to say today in court with anybody.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Nobody.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, yesterday you identified some photographs. Remember those photographs.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Before you were asked to identify them in court by the prosecutor, had you seen those photographs before.
Davellin Arvizo: Once, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who showed them to you.
Davellin Arvizo: Mr. Sneddon did.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did Mr. Sneddon show you the photographs.
Davellin Arvizo: A couple of days before I even -- a day or two before I even saw them here.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, where did he meet with you to show you the photographs.
Davellin Arvizo: In where he was located, in there.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me.
Davellin Arvizo: Where he was located.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you came to Mr. Sneddon's office.
Davellin Arvizo: It wasn't an office.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it a home.
Davellin Arvizo: It was in somebody's home. But it was a home, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And before, all you said was, “Mr. Sneddon gave me some grand jury testimony to look at”, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, now that you're asking me about pictures, I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Now you remember them.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did Mr. Sneddon show you that picture of the room that was renovated for Gavin.
Davellin Arvizo: He showed me the pictures and then I would tell him what they were. He wouldn't tell me what they were.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he ever tell you where he got the pictures.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know if he said it or not.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know where he got them.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he ever show you the picture of Gavin's room and say, “Here's a picture”, and tell you where he got it.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, those are our pictures.
Mr. Mesereau: They're your pictures.
Davellin Arvizo: Of -- with Gavin in his room.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, those are our pictures.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you give the picture to Mr. Sneddon.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes. He wanted a picture of Gavin, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you give Mr. Sneddon any other photos.
Davellin Arvizo: The Kobe Bryant picture, yes. There's other pictures that we've given them.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you give him those pictures.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it within the last two weeks.
Davellin Arvizo: I think so, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Has anyone ever told you what I said in my opening statement in this courtroom.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: No one's even discussed anything I said.
Davellin Arvizo: No. Not that I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Not that you remember.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know, no.
Mr. Mesereau: In the last week, has anyone said to you words to the effect, “Mr. Mesereau said the following about the case”.
Davellin Arvizo: No. Not that I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Not that you remember. Okay. Has anyone ever suggested to you that, “You need to address some issues that Mr. Mesereau talked about in his opening statement”.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Not that you remember.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you sure about that.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: You're sure.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. Now, you told the jury that the first night you and your family were at Neverland, you had dinner in the main dining room and discussed whether or not Gavin was going to sleep in Michael Jackson's bedroom, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, that was the first day you'd ever met Michael Jackson, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You had arrived in the afternoon, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You said you had played at Neverland with your brothers that afternoon, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember what we did. All I remember is me meeting him, and the rooms, and that we ate dinner that day.
Mr. Mesereau: So would you say you were there a couple of hours before you had dinner.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was your mother in the dining room.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, we were all in the dining room.
Mr. Mesereau: And the subject at dinner came up, “Will Gavin sleep in Michael's bedroom”, the first dinner.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, Gavin brought it up in the dining room, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. To your knowledge, did your father approve.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember. I think he did.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did your mother approve.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, I think she did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you met with the social workers, did you tell them that your father and mother had approved Gavin sleeping in Michael Jackson's bedroom the first time you were at Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: If they had asked me, I probably would have said, “Yes”.
Mr. Mesereau: Because you would have told them the truth that day.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, well, on certain things. Because --
Mr. Mesereau: You would have told them the truth about certain things, but not other things, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, yeah, because you already kind of knew not to say what went on at Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: So you would have lied about some things and not lied about other things, depending on what you were asked, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: But you never discussed with your mother what you were going to say if questioned by the three social workers, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Never did.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I believe you said you went to Neverland twice with Mr. Tucker, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember when. It was after our first visit, after Gavin was already in remission. I don't remember when.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Mr. Tucker there during the Bashir filming.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't you testify yesterday that Mr. Tucker was there for the Bashir filming.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You accompanied your brothers to Neverland for the Bashir film, true.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you discuss with your brothers on the way the fact that you were going to be filmed.
Davellin Arvizo: We didn't know we were until we got there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You thought you were just visiting.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah. We just thought that Michael wanted to see us.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't you say something yesterday about filming your brothers like had been done before.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, they thought it was like when they had done one previously of just my brothers and Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Right. So you thought that's what it was going to be.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, when we got there, we found out we were going to get filmed, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And were your brothers eager to be filmed, as far as you knew.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. You have to ask them.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, what was your impression.
Davellin Arvizo: I didn't think I was going to get filmed at all. I thought the whole focus was on Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: Did someone tell you to say that today.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: No.
Davellin Arvizo: That's my own words.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh, okay. You were filmed, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You spoke on the film, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were majoring in performing arts, true.
Davellin Arvizo: Majoring in performing arts.
Mr. Mesereau: Uh-huh.
Davellin Arvizo: I'm not majoring in performing arts.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you studying performing arts at the time.
Davellin Arvizo: I was taking extra classes at my school because that's the ones they have you take, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you want to be in that film.
Davellin Arvizo: No. I didn't know I was going to be in that film until, like, they were saying, “Okay, now we're going to film, you know, everybody in the kitchen”. I didn't know I was. I thought the whole focus was Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you want to be in the film.
Davellin Arvizo: I didn't care. I was just watching Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you want to be in the film; yes or no.
Davellin Arvizo: I didn't care for it, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell anyone, “I don't want to be in this film”.
Davellin Arvizo: I just -- I did along with what they were asking me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you felt you had no say in the matter, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, I --
Mr. Sneddon: Object as argumentative, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Withdrawn.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, has your mother ever told you to say in court that she never tried to raise money for Gavin.
Davellin Arvizo: She's never told me anything to say in court.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You've never discussed what you'll say in court with her at any time.
Davellin Arvizo: Never. Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you have any knowledge of your mother going to a newspaper in El Monte to place an ad in the paper to raise money for Gavin.
Davellin Arvizo: No. What that was, was my aunt's -- that's her friend, and she wanted to do a story, because they found out of Gavin's illness.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have knowledge about that.
Davellin Arvizo: A little bit. Not really.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if your mother ever spoke to anyone with that newspaper about raising money for Gavin.
Davellin Arvizo: No. Not that I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: So you don't think she did.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never discussed that with your mom, as to whether or not she approached them.
Davellin Arvizo: They just asked a couple of questions to my mom about Gavin's illness and stuff. That was it.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have any knowledge of your mother calling the paper up and complaining that they hadn't put the bank account in the ad.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: Never heard anything about that.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But as far as you know today, your mother never approached that paper about raising money.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever discuss that issue with your mother.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you followed this case on television at all.
Davellin Arvizo: Just when you're flipping the channels and you see something. But I keep going, because it just upsets us.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you watched any shows on television that talked about the case.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you watched any shows on television that talked about your mom.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever discuss with your mom any shows that appeared on television about the case.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever discuss with Gavin any shows that appeared on television about this case.
Davellin Arvizo: Especially not, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever discussed with your brother Star any shows on television that appeared about the case.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever discuss with Jay Jackson any of these television shows that talked about this case.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, your mother and Jay Jackson are married now, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, he's my stepfather.
Mr. Mesereau: He's still in the United States Army, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, he is.
Mr. Mesereau: As a reserve.
Davellin Arvizo: No, he's active now.
Mr. Mesereau: He is active now.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, he is. He's been since my mom -- since my mom and them have been dating, he's been in active duty.
Mr. Mesereau: He was in the reserve at one point, wasn't he.
Davellin Arvizo: They turned him back in because of the war.
Mr. Mesereau: Where is he stationed now, if you know.
Mr. Sneddon: Judge, I'm going to --
Mr. Mesereau: I don't mean the address, but is he stationed at an Army base.
Davellin Arvizo: He's stationed --
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me. Counsel, I want to object, Your Honor, in terms of where he's living now with the family in terms of the location. I don't think it's relevant to this litigation, and it presents certain problems that I'll address at sidebar, if you wish me to, but --
The Court: Do you need to know where he is for any reason.
Mr. Mesereau: I was just wondering where he was stationed. I didn't want the address.
The Court: Let's go ahead.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you testified yesterday about the size of a T.V. set in Gavin's renovated room, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did somebody tell you they were going to ask you that question before you appeared yesterday.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: So yesterday was the first time you learned that that might even be an issue in the case.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. No sheriff ever discussed that with you.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember. I don't -- I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Sneddon never discussed it with you.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, he had asked me what things were in that room.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: I told him there was a T.V. and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have any knowledge of Louise Palanker visiting that room and complaining about what was in it.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Louise Palanker in that room.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember. I just mainly remember her going to the hospital where Gavin was at.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. You had your photo taken with Louise Palanker, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, several.
Mr. Mesereau: And were they all at The Laugh Factory.
Davellin Arvizo: No, some were at the hospital also.
Mr. Mesereau: So she was a regular visitor at the hospital, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you know someone named Carol LaMere, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you meet Carol LaMere.
Davellin Arvizo: At a dance studio.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. We were really young.
Mr. Mesereau: And at some point you moved in with Carol LaMere, true.
Davellin Arvizo: I never moved in with her.
Mr. Mesereau: You never lived at her place for a sustained period of time.
Davellin Arvizo: I visited her for about a week.
Mr. Mesereau: Just one week.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, it was several visits that she would come and pick me up, but I never moved in with her.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever live with her for a month at a time.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How about a week at a time.
Davellin Arvizo: Maybe so, a week.
Mr. Mesereau: How many weeks do you think you lived at her place.
Davellin Arvizo: The longest I stood there at a time was week. And I think it was like two or three times that I stood with her.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you lived with her during the summer of the year 2000, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: For how long did you live --
Davellin Arvizo: I didn't live with her, though. I stood with her in the year 2000.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Davellin Arvizo: I didn't live with her. I stood with her in the year 2000.
Mr. Mesereau: You --
Davellin Arvizo: I never lived with Carol LaMere.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever bring a suitcase with clothes to Carol LaMere's home.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, I was visiting. I took clothes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you stayed weeks at a time, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Just one week at a time. That was the max. I don't remember staying any longer.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times did you stay for approximately a week at Carol LaMere's home.
Davellin Arvizo: Probably like -- I stood there a week at one time, and then close to a week the other two times.
Mr. Mesereau: You asked her if you could move in, didn't you.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You told Carol LaMere stories about your mother, didn't you.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You told her your mother would awaken you at 2:00 in the morning, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You told her your mother would beat your father, didn't you.
Davellin Arvizo: No. I told her my -- I tried telling her that my father would beat my mother.
Mr. Mesereau: You told Carol LaMere that your mother was telling you to attack your father, when, in reality, your mother was beating your father, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You never said anything like that to Carol LaMere.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You constantly told Carol about Janet hitting you and your brothers, true.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And at one point you told Carol LaMere that your family was going to move into a big house in the Hollywood Hills, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: I never told her that.
Mr. Mesereau: Never said that at all.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that Carol LaMere asked Michael Jackson for a vehicle for your family to use.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Don't know anything about that.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell Mrs. LaMere that Michael Jackson gave Gavin video games and players.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know when you told that to Carol LaMere.
Davellin Arvizo: One of the times that I was staying there. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you don't remember how many times you stayed there, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Has anyone discussed --
Davellin Arvizo: It's not clear. It was too long ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Has anyone discussed with you what you said to Carol LaMere before today.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Has any police officer discussed it with you.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Any sheriff.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Sneddon.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Robel.
Davellin Arvizo: All they have asked me is who she is. And I told him who she was.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you last tell any of them who she is.
Davellin Arvizo: A couple weeks ago. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know when. Was it in the last week.
Davellin Arvizo: No. It was farther than that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did anyone ask you any questions about Carol LaMere in the last week.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Has anyone told you I mentioned Carol LaMere in my opening statement in this case.
Davellin Arvizo: No. Nobody talked to me about your opening statement.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Who did you discuss Carol LaMere with.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember. One of the officers. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that in the last month.
Davellin Arvizo: I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever tell Carol LaMere that Janet would take her children places and intentionally not feed them or bring food.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell Carol LaMere that it was Janet's intent that the children be fed by whoever they were visiting.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never said anything like that.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you saying you never complained about your mother at all to Carol LaMere.
Davellin Arvizo: No. My mom's a very, very, very good mother to me.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never complained about her one bit.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never complained about her to Carol.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you at the fund-raiser that Jamie Masada put together.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know which one you're talking about.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever at a fund-raiser for Gavin at The Laugh Factory.
Davellin Arvizo: The one that I thought was a fund-raiser was the one with Chris, but it ended up just being a graduation.
Mr. Mesereau: It wasn't a fund-raiser at all.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I know of. It was just little kids, like us, that were graduating, like how we did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did anyone try and raise money for Gavin at that event, to your knowledge.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I know of.
Mr. Mesereau: Never heard anything about that.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you there.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, I was there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know when that was, approximately.
Davellin Arvizo: I think it was in -- I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Gavin perform at that fund-raiser.
Davellin Arvizo: I think he did, for a second.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And “for a second”, what do you mean.
Davellin Arvizo: Like for a couple minutes. That's when he was going through chemotherapy, so he couldn't stand for that long.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So he just performed a little bit.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. But you think that was just for a graduation, not to raise any funds.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, it was like 13 kids. They were doing little acts.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: It was just like what we did.
Mr. Mesereau: And Chris Tucker was there.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, he was.
Mr. Mesereau: Any other celebrities there; do you know.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How many times have you testified before under oath, if you know.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, the grand jury. Then the one that I did because my father abused us.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, the grand jury was approximately April -- March 30th to April 1st, 2004; does that sound right to you.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, it was the day before my birthday.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And you came and testified, under oath, to the grand jury, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, what you're saying is you testified in a court proceeding involving your father and mother previously, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Involving my father, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know approximately when that was.
Davellin Arvizo: I was in high school. I was 15 years old.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, that had to do with a restraining order, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: It had to do with -- I don't know what it was about, but the Judge wanted to speak with me on how I felt towards my father and what he's done to me.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you talk to the Judge.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Was your mother there.
Davellin Arvizo: She was there outside, but the Judge had brought us into her chambers. Because my father's sisters and Carol LaMere were making faces at us.
Mr. Mesereau: So Carol LaMere was there, too.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, she came with David.
Mr. Mesereau: And she was making faces at you.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you think she was siding with David.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was your mother, at that time, employed; do you know.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you living with your mother then.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, I was.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, the court proceeding you went to concerned whether or not your father had spoken to you, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember. All I know is that she asked -- the city attorney asked me questions about my father and how our relationship was, and different events, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was your mother there.
Davellin Arvizo: She was on the outside. The Judge had brought us into her chambers.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was your mother's state of health at that point; do you know.
Davellin Arvizo: She had gotten two operations on her feet, because her bones, they needed fixing. One was cracked and repinned together, and the other was shaved.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: So she could hardly walk that far.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall -- and this is a sensitive area, and I'll stop, you know, if you need a break, with Judge Melville's permission, of course. Do you recall members of your family accusing each other of molestation.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall your mother ever telling the Los Angeles Police Department that David had molested you.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Gavin ever making any allegations of molestation before.
Davellin Arvizo: Gavin never made any to David. What that was, was that the Judge -- the detective had asked my mother, “Is there anything you want to get off your chest”. And she said, “Well, one time when she was younger”, and I know, because I was there when the detective came. But that court proceeding had nothing to do with this. The detective just asked her, “If you wanted to get anything off your chest”.
Mr. Mesereau: To your mother.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Gavin making any allegations before this case.
Davellin Arvizo: Never did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear anything about that.
Davellin Arvizo: He never did. He never has.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you ever recall -- did anyone ever tell you that they had heard Gavin had made an allegation against your mother.
Davellin Arvizo: He never has. He never has made any allegations against anybody.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know if he's ever made them with anyone with the Department of Children & Family Services.
Davellin Arvizo: He never has.
Mr. Mesereau: You're sure of that.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, I'm sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you there when they interviewed him.
Davellin Arvizo: No, but I know him.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So as you sit here today, you've never heard anything about Gavin ever making any other allegation about molestation against anybody.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Never.
Davellin Arvizo: Against my parents, I've never heard him say any allegations.
Mr. Mesereau: My question is this: Have you ever -- has anyone ever told you, regardless of whether you think it's true or not, that Gavin ever made an allegation against your mother before.
Davellin Arvizo: No. Never made an allegation against my mother.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I'm not asking if you think he did it or not. I'm asking if anyone's ever told you they had heard that he had.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know anything about it.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever interviewed by the Department of Children & Family Services during the 1990s.
Davellin Arvizo: One lady had came over to the East L.A. apartment.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when that was.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you interviewed.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember if I was.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if Gavin was interviewed.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember if any of us were. I know she spoke to my mom; but I don't know if we were interviewed. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever talk to your mom about that event.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever discussed it with your mom.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know what happened.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, at some point you reported your father to the Los Angeles police, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever discuss with your mother in advance what you were going to say to the police.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Never talked about it at all with her.
Davellin Arvizo: I kept it to myself for a couple days, because I was scared.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: Still scared of him. And then I told her what happened. And then she told me we should tell the police.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you call the police.
Davellin Arvizo: She called the police, and then the detective came over.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You told the police that you were being abused five times a week -- five times a week, right.
Davellin Arvizo: We were abused every day, more than once, by my father.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you there when your mother was interviewed.
Davellin Arvizo: I -- I don't remember if she was interviewed. I just remember the detective coming to the East L.A. apartment.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you accuse your father of falsely imprisoning you.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And to your knowledge, did your mother accuse your father of falsely imprisoning her.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you accuse your father of terrorist threats.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did your mother accuse your father of terrorist threats.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And you accused your father of willful harm to a child, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know what that is.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. But were you present when your mother told the LAPD that your father had molested you.
Davellin Arvizo: No, but I had heard when he had asked her, “If you want to get anything off your chest”, and she said, “Yes”, and that's when they went to the kitchen area of the East L.A. apartment.
Mr. Mesereau: But when you were interviewed by the police, you never told them your father had molested you, did you.
Davellin Arvizo: Because they weren't asking me about that, and I didn't know. I was very young.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Have you ever discussed with your mother what your father did to you.
Davellin Arvizo: They were both present that day.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: He had -- she had said, “Well, I never told Davellin that”. And he says, “Well” -- he said, “Well, she doesn't need to know anyways”. It was just a horrible experience for me to find out that he did that to me when I was young.
Mr. Mesereau: And you found that out through your mother.
Davellin Arvizo: From both of them. Because he had agreed to it when I was standing right there. Because they were having an argument, and my mom screamed it out at him.
Mr. Mesereau: And your father agreed he had done that.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you want to take a second.
Davellin Arvizo: I'm fine.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you want to wait one second.
Davellin Arvizo: I'm okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Ready to go.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you aware that your mother claimed that security guards at J.C. Penney sexually assaulted her.
Davellin Arvizo: I wasn't there. I don't know anything about that case. I was not involved in that case. All I know is that Gavin complained of his elbow and started complaining of his head, because I picked him up with my grandparents. That's all I know about it.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever discussed that case with your mom.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Never talked about it at all.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you discussed that case with Gavin ever.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know even what your mother was claiming.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't, really. I was not involved in that case. I had nothing to do with that case. I don't know anything of that case.
Mr. Mesereau: But when your mother filed a suit, did she talk to you about it.
Davellin Arvizo: She didn't, really. We didn't really talk about it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And Gavin never talked to you about it either.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: But to your knowledge, Gavin was involved in that.
Davellin Arvizo: I know that Gavin, my mom, and David and my mom -- Gavin, Star, David and -- Gavin, Star, David and my mom were all involved in it. That's all I know.
Mr. Mesereau: And you don't know what they were claiming happened at J.C. Penney.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know details. I don't know anything. It was too long ago and I wasn't involved in it.
Mr. Mesereau: And you haven't discussed it with anyone in the last year, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. To your knowledge - and I'm only asking what you know - who made contributions to help Gavin pay for medical bills.
Davellin Arvizo: We never asked anybody for medical bills, to help pay for it.
Mr. Mesereau: Never did. Never asked Chris Tucker.
Davellin Arvizo: Never asked him for help.
Mr. Mesereau: Never asked Louise Palanker.
Davellin Arvizo: We have medical insurance. We don't need help with our medical bills.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever ask Louise Palanker.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever ask Chris Tucker.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Were the fund-raisers at The Laugh Factory for medical expenses.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. I was too young. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever discussed the purpose of those fund-raisers with your mom.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. You'll have to ask David.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss those fund-raisers with your mom.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see an ad in a newspaper in El Monte which said that Gavin's chemotherapy treatments cost $12,000 apiece. Did you ever see that ad.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember about that. All I remember is Gavin's picture. I don't remember anything that was in the newspaper.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: It was too long ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you ever remember police officers in Los Angeles having a fund-raiser to raise money for Gavin's medical bills.
Davellin Arvizo: They didn't have a fund-raiser for us. What the Los Angeles Police Department did was, Officer Lassak brought his old Christmas tree for us. And that's all I remember them doing.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know who spoke to them about Gavin's health.
Davellin Arvizo: Officers.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Davellin Arvizo: Officer Lassak spoke to the police department about it.
Mr. Mesereau: Who is Officer Lassak.
Davellin Arvizo: I met him through my LAPD Explorers.
Mr. Mesereau: He was a friend of your mom, right.
Davellin Arvizo: He was a friend of the family, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you -- the last couple of years, you've spoken to him from time to time.
Davellin Arvizo: I haven't spoke to him.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see your mother speak to him.
Davellin Arvizo: I haven't seen her speak to him. I work. I'm a full-time student and full-time worker.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have any knowledge of your mother speaking to Andrew Lassak of the LAPD.
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me, Your Honor. I'm going to object. At what point in time. Vague.
Mr. Mesereau: Sure. I'll rephrase it, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: During the period of time, say, from January to June of 2003, do you recall ever seeing Andrew Lassak.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't -- the last time I saw him, we were living at the East L.A. apartment and I was still involved in Explorers.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that, if you know.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember. In the year 2001. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if your mother was in contact with Andrew Lassak during 2003.
Davellin Arvizo: I know he would come and visit us once in a while, but I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know about your mother approaching Andrew Lassak about raising money to pay for Gavin's medical expenses.
Davellin Arvizo: She never approached him that way.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, how do you know that.
Davellin Arvizo: Because that never happened.
Mr. Mesereau: It never happened.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And you're not aware of any LAPD police officers trying to raise, you know, funds to pay Gavin's medical expenses.
Davellin Arvizo: No. Not that I remember. Not that I know of.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know anything about Chris Tucker sending $2,000 to your mom.
Davellin Arvizo: No. I don't know that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss that with Chris Tucker.
Davellin Arvizo: No. We're not going to bring up anything like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if Fritz Coleman helped arrange to raise any money for Gavin's medical expenses.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. Our medical bills are paid by insurance. I don't know --
Mr. Mesereau: And I agree with you on that. That's why I have to ask you about this. Did Fritz Coleman ever get involved in a fund-raiser for Gavin at The Laugh Factory.
Davellin Arvizo: I didn't know about the fund-raisers. The only one that I know is the one I met Chris at.
Mr. Mesereau: At The Laugh Factory, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: The fund-raiser to pay for Gavin's medical costs, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I guess it was a fund-raiser. But it was just like a graduation, like we had. It didn't look like a fund-raiser or anything. It just looked like a get-together.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You indicated yesterday that Mr. Jackson gave you presents, as the prosecutor described it, that you used at the police academy, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes. The car.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, how did you use Mr. Jackson's car at the police academy.
Davellin Arvizo: My mom would drive me from the East L.A. apartment to my police academy.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know who approached Mr. Jackson about giving your family a car.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if your mother did it.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if Gavin did it.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But certainly, to the extent that car was used with the police academy, it was to help you, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, I know when the car was given, it was given for Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: For his doctors' appointments.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And it was also used to take you to the police academy.
Davellin Arvizo: That was after. I didn't join the LAPD Explorers until 2001, I think.
Mr. Mesereau: So as far as you know, the car was used for both purposes, to help Gavin get to the hospital and you to get to the police academy; is that right.
Davellin Arvizo: It was given for Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: How do you know that.
Davellin Arvizo: Because that's when Gavin was getting chemotherapy, and that's what I had heard --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: -- from David.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did your mother ever discuss that with you.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never talked to you about where the car came from.
Davellin Arvizo: I knew it came from Mr. Jackson, and I knew it was for Gavin's doctors' appointments.
Mr. Mesereau: Did your mother ever discuss that with you.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never talked to your mother about why the car was given to your family.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I heard it through David or Gavin, because they were the ones that were at the hospital. They're the ones that would go to Neverland mostly. Mom never went to Neverland, only that first visit, and then this --
Mr. Mesereau: Now, who would take you to the police academy in the car that Mr. Jackson gave your family.
Davellin Arvizo: My mom.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was a white Bronco; is that right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: I'd like to ask you just how much of a friend your family was with Chris Tucker. Did you guys hang out a lot together.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, he invited us to his brother's wedding.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And approximately when was that.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you go other places with him.
Davellin Arvizo: He would take us to the Oakland game. He would take us -- he would ask us to come visit him at his house. I slept over Azja's house one time. We were really close with them.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when your friendship seemed to fall off with them.
Davellin Arvizo: When this started. This whole thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you try to contact them, and they just didn't respond, or --
Davellin Arvizo: No, we just -- nobody did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, I believe you said that approximately a year passed between your first visit to Neverland and your second; is that right.
Davellin Arvizo: That's from what I remember. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the jury about your being on a plane with Chris Tucker, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes. There's two separate occasions, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was the first occasion that you were on a plane with Chris Tucker.
Davellin Arvizo: We went to the Oakland Raider game.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And the second one was when you and Chris Tucker and your family went to Miami, right.
Davellin Arvizo: My mom and my brothers and me and Chris Tucker went to Miami in the private jet.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And did you think you were going to Miami on Chris Tucker's plane against your will.
Davellin Arvizo: No. They just said -- to our knowledge, we thought we were going for a press conference.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was the press conference supposed to be about, to your knowledge.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if it was supposed to be about Bashir.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. All I know is there was supposed to be a press conference.
Mr. Mesereau: But no one told you what it was going to be about, to your knowledge.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding your mother wanted to be in a press conference.
Davellin Arvizo: She never asked for it. They're the ones that told us.
Mr. Mesereau: They told you to get on Chris Tucker's plane and go to Florida.
Davellin Arvizo: They asked us to come to Miami, and that there was going to be a press conference over there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How long were you in Miami, if you remember.
Davellin Arvizo: A couple of days. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: And after those couple of days were over, you got on a plane with Mr. Jackson and his family to come back, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Do you want me to specify who was on the plane.
Mr. Mesereau: We'll get into that. Sure. Sure. But basically the flight to Miami was with Mr. Tucker.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And the flight back was with Mr. Jackson, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes. And all his people, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And there were a couple of days in between in Florida, right. A couple of days in between in Miami, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. How many nights do you think you spent in Miami.
Davellin Arvizo: A couple. I don't know. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Just a couple.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, on the flight back, Mr. Jackson was on the flight, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: His son, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And just what is his name.
Davellin Arvizo: Prince.
Mr. Mesereau: And how old was Prince at the time; do you know.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember. Very young, though.
Mr. Mesereau: He was a little kid, wasn't he.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: There were two nannies on the plane, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Grace, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: She was a nanny, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who was the other one; do you remember.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember who.
Mr. Mesereau: But there was a second nanny, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said that Mr. Jackson's doctor was on the plane, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't remember his name, do you.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember his name.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you meet him in Florida when you were there.
Davellin Arvizo: We met him -- where I remember meeting him was when we got in the car to go to the jet to go back to Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. You said that Marie Nicole was on the plane, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said that Aldo was on the plane.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Your mom was on the plane.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You were on it, of course.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Gavin and Star, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that was a private chartered plane.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: The group you've just identified, they were the only ones on that plane, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Other than the flight attendant and the pilot.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And were most of the seats taken, as far as you remember.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Were they all taken, as far as you remember.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: When you were in Miami, you said you visited Mr. Jackson's suite, right.
Davellin Arvizo: We stood in Mr. Jackson's suite the whole day, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that just one day or a second day; do you know.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't really know, I'm not sure, but when we were there, we went straight up to the suite and stood there all day.
Mr. Mesereau: But it was no more than two days, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, I think. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: So when you got there, there were two nannies and three little kids, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Got where.
Mr. Mesereau: To Miami.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Aldo, Marie Nicole.
Davellin Arvizo: Frank and Dieter were all in the room.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But the children I'm talking about. How many children, besides your family.
Davellin Arvizo: When we went right to the suite, Prince, Paris and Prince II were there, and Marie Nicole and Aldo were there.
Mr. Mesereau: So Prince and Paris are Michael Jackson's children, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: A boy and a girl.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And they were with him in his suite, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Prince and Paris at Neverland when you visited.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, where were Prince and Paris living at Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: In their room. Upstairs in the main house.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Mr. Jackson with Prince and Paris.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes. A couple of times, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you see him walking around the property with them.
Davellin Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you see him in his house with them.
Davellin Arvizo: He would go up to the room and see them, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You've been to every room in Mr. Jackson's house, haven't you.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: You've seen them all, right.
Davellin Arvizo: From -- yeah, I guess.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever seen Prince and Paris's room in Mr. Jackson's house.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes. It's upstairs.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see those rooms the first time you visited Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see them the second time you visited Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I didn't. I saw them when he had come back from Miami.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Can you describe Prince and Paris's room.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember. All I know is where it was at. I don't remember all the little details, because I was only in there for about only one -- maybe 15 minutes, and that was the only time that I went in there.
Mr. Mesereau: You did describe for the jury Mr. Jackson's room --
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- in his main house, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Before you testified yesterday, did you go over that description with anyone.
Davellin Arvizo: A week before.
Mr. Mesereau: Who did you go over that description with.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember who it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it a sheriff.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember who it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it Mr. Sneddon.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember who it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it in the last two weeks; do you know.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Did anyone show you before yesterday the tape of Mr. Jackson's home.
Davellin Arvizo: The tape. What tape.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, there was a tape played in this court which showed certain parts of Neverland, including Mr. Jackson's room.
Davellin Arvizo: I have never seen a tape.
Mr. Mesereau: Never seen that.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did anyone show you any photographs of Mr. Jackson's room before yesterday.
Davellin Arvizo: The ones that I identified. They're the ones that they put up here, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, who showed you those photographs before yesterday.
Davellin Arvizo: Mr. Sneddon.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you discuss what you remembered being in that room with Mr. Sneddon.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he show you the photos of the room while you were discussing this with him.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know when they were shown, but I know it was some point.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever been into any of Mr. Jackson's closets.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I know of, no.
Mr. Mesereau: And have you been into Mr. Jackson's bathroom.
Davellin Arvizo: Just saw it, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you see it.
Davellin Arvizo: When I went in that one time.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you use the bathroom.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did someone take you into the bathroom.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I was walking around in the downstairs of it, just looking. Because it had been the only time I've been in there, so I was just looking around.
Mr. Mesereau: So you were just alone looking around in Mr. Jackson's room.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I wasn't alone in the room.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry.
Davellin Arvizo: I wasn't alone in the room.
Mr. Mesereau: Who were you with.
Davellin Arvizo: I was just walking around.
Mr. Mesereau: Who were you walking around with.
Davellin Arvizo: I wasn't walking around with nobody. They were sitting down and playing. There was, like, a little arcade game in there. And they were playing that and listening to music. And I was just looking around.
Mr. Mesereau: In Mr. Jackson's room.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, on the downstairs.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And approximately when was that, if you know.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it the first time you visited.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it the last time you visited.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember when. But it was after Miami.
Mr. Mesereau: After Miami.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: So you had never seen Mr. Jackson's room till after Miami.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You had never been on a tour of the house.
Davellin Arvizo: Not in his room, no. We had just saw the library and the -- the kitchen and stuff. But we never went in his room.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know someone named Rio.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know named Simone.
Davellin Arvizo: No. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever share a room at Neverland with any other children.
Davellin Arvizo: I was always by myself. I slept by myself.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever play with any other children at Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: I remember some came, but I was mainly by myself. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: So the name Rio doesn't ring a bell.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: The name Simone doesn't ring a bell, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you and your brothers ever go to the zoo area at Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: I was hardly ever with my brothers. If I wanted to go, I would go in the little cart.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever go to the zoo area at Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever go with your brothers.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Always alone.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, sometimes I would go with Marie Nicole. But I was mainly by myself.
Mr. Mesereau: The first time you visited Neverland, was Marie Nicole there.
Davellin Arvizo: No, she wasn't.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first see Marie Nicole at Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: After we got back from Miami.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you were in Miami, do you recall your mom ever discussing the Bashir documentary.
Davellin Arvizo: No. We just knew that it was being aired. And we weren't allowed to see it, but we didn't discuss it.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss it with your mom.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever talk to your mom about the fact that you appeared in that documentary.
Davellin Arvizo: She knew we had got filmed, so I guess we knew that we would be on there.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss that with her.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss the fact that Gavin was on that film with your mother.
Davellin Arvizo: We didn't know that it was going to be aired until, like, the press came. We just thought it was like a personal video.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you've never really discussed with Gavin what appears in that documentary.
Davellin Arvizo: No. Well, when they were filming it, I was standing right there. So....
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet Mr. Bashir.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was the day of the taping the first time you met Mr. Bashir.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss what Mr. Bashir was doing with him.
Davellin Arvizo: No. We didn't talk to Mr. Bashir. We just said hi.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But after you and Gavin and Star were taped, did you go home and discuss what happened with your mom.
Davellin Arvizo: We just told her that we got filmed, but we thought it was just one of his personal videos.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when you say “personal video”, what are you talking about.
Davellin Arvizo: Like because Gavin had been taped before, during his cancer, with Star. And it was just a personal video, like for Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was a personal video about Gavin's recovering from cancer, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No, this was during his cancer.
Mr. Mesereau: But it was about him trying to recover from it, wasn't it.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see it.
Davellin Arvizo: I just saw it once.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you see it.
Davellin Arvizo: At Hamid's house.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you indicated that Ronald was in Florida, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk to him.
Davellin Arvizo: Just to be introduced.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And was Frank in Florida, too.
Davellin Arvizo: I know he came later on, like later on in the day, the first day that we got there.
Mr. Mesereau: But correct me if I'm wrong, yesterday you said that Mr. Jackson had a room in his suite, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: There were other rooms in the suite, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No, there's not other rooms in the suite. There's just one in the suite. And then there was a connecting room that was -- that was another hotel room, but they had the doors open, so it connected it.
Mr. Mesereau: With another whole tower.
Davellin Arvizo: There was another hotel room connected to Mr. Jackson's suite, so they had that door open.
Mr. Mesereau: And you indicated that, for most of the day, people were going in and out, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, Mr. Dieter and Ronald would.
Mr. Mesereau: And Marie Nicole and Aldo were there too.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Mr. Jackson's children were there too.
Davellin Arvizo: They left after a while. They weren't there the whole time.
Mr. Mesereau: But they were there a lot of the time, weren't they.
Davellin Arvizo: A good amount.
Mr. Mesereau: And the nannies were with them, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you testified yesterday and today, that you saw behavioral changes in Gavin at some point, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever discussed those behavioral changes with Mr. Sneddon.
Davellin Arvizo: He just asked me if there was anything different about Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: And when was that.
Davellin Arvizo: A while ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss what you were going to say in court today about those behavioral changes.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me ask you this: Were you ever aware that Gavin had a lot of disciplinary problems in school.
Davellin Arvizo: I know he would talk a lot, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever aware that teachers were upset because he would get up in class and disrupt the courtroom -- the classroom.
Davellin Arvizo: He was very talkative, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, he was described as disruptive, wasn't he.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, he would get very talkative. He would get very talkative, that's what his problem was.
Mr. Mesereau: He was described by his teachers as getting up in the middle of class and disrupting the class, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, I don't know --
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as asked and answered. Lack of foundation, if she has any personal knowledge of this.
The Court: Sustained on foundation.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have any knowledge yourself of Gavin having disciplinary problems in school before he ever met Mr. Jackson.
Davellin Arvizo: I knew he was very talkative. That's all I know of. I was very young.
Mr. Mesereau: On the rebuttal tape, Gavin mentions gang signs; do you remember that.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you saw the rebuttal tape, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, I heard of it. I heard that. But I don't think it was Gavin that said it. My mom said it. She was just playing around with Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: Your mother was playing along with Gavin when your mother mentioned gang signs.
Davellin Arvizo: No, because Gavin was messing with his hands.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Davellin Arvizo: And I think that's what it was. And I think my mom was just playing with him, saying, “Stop throwing those gang signs”.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, has Gavin ever been associated with anybody in a gang.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never at all, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you've never seen Gavin make a gang sign, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No, he's a good boy.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How did you learn Gavin was having problems with his conduct at school.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object as lack of foundation.
Mr. Mesereau: I think she said she knew, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustain the objection.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss with your mother the fact that Gavin was having any problems at school.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you don't remember ever having a discussion like that.
Davellin Arvizo: All I know is that I would tell Gavin, you know, “Just be quiet and listen to what the teachers tell you”. That's all I know. All I know is Gavin talks a lot.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, was he ever asked to leave school.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. I was young. I wasn't really paying attention to his school.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So as you sit here today, you know nothing about Gavin ever being asked to leave school, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I don't know that.
Mr. Mesereau: Never heard anything about that.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, in Miami, you said you got a manicure and a pedicure.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And I think you said Chris Tucker, Gavin and Star got massages, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was before you got on the plane to go back, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, that was right before we left.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know who paid for those pedicures, manicures and massages.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, Mr. Jackson did. They were charged to the room.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: Or -- Mr. Tucker's was charged to his room. I don't know, really. But I think Mr. Jackson paid for my pedicure, but I don't know about the massages.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you know who charged what to their rooms.
Davellin Arvizo: Because they had given us, like, a little thing to take and say that it was fine to charge it to the room.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, I'd like to just get straight in my mind, if I can, the schools you mentioned yesterday that you went to.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You mentioned Hollywood High, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when did you go to Hollywood High.
Davellin Arvizo: For my freshman and half of my sophomore year.
Mr. Mesereau: So what years would that be.
Davellin Arvizo: 2000, 2001.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you go to Mountain View.
Davellin Arvizo: Mountain View was the beginning of -- it was -- part of my junior year, like the ending part, and then my senior year was there.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you mention a third school.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Which one was that.
Davellin Arvizo: That was Roosevelt.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you go to Roosevelt.
Davellin Arvizo: I went to Roosevelt in between my sophomore year and my junior year.
Mr. Mesereau: For how long.
Davellin Arvizo: Part of my sophomore, and part of my junior.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, did you move to these schools because you had moved your home.
Davellin Arvizo: No, because -- I left Hollywood High School because my father didn't leave me alone.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: So I had to move.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you went from Hollywood.
Davellin Arvizo: To Roosevelt.
Mr. Mesereau: To Roosevelt. And where in Los Angeles was Roosevelt.
Davellin Arvizo: Like five minutes away from the Soto apartment. It was that high school for that address.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And I gather your father didn't come to that school to see you, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember, no.
Mr. Mesereau: But you were concerned that he was coming to Hollywood High to see you.
Davellin Arvizo: No, he was coming to Hollywood High. That's why I left.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. When you were at Hollywood High, were you living at Soto.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, I was.
Mr. Mesereau: When you were at Mountain View, were you living at Soto.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I wasn't. I was living with my grandparents.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Yesterday you put little notations on a large diagram of the interior of the plane --
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- remember. Had you gone over that diagram before you testified.
Davellin Arvizo: I have said where I saw everybody sit, and I had seen the diagram before.
Mr. Mesereau: And who had showed it to you.
Davellin Arvizo: Mr. Sneddon was sitting there. I know there was somebody else. But --
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know approximately when that was.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember when it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Did someone tell you, “This is a diagram of the interior of that plane”.
Davellin Arvizo: “This is a diagram of the description that you've given us of the plane”, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who told you that.
Davellin Arvizo: Mr. Sneddon, I think. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: And you don't know if that diagram is completely accurate, do you.
Davellin Arvizo: That's from what I saw, so --
Mr. Mesereau: Who put the diagram together.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You hadn't been on that plane since when, January of 2003, February of 2003.
Davellin Arvizo: It was for Miami, so I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. So correct me if I'm wrong, Mr. Sneddon said to you, “Here's a diagram of the interior of the plane”, right.
Davellin Arvizo: “Of what you described”.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did he have you, in front of him, start marking off where people sat.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: He didn't.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: So the first time you did it was yesterday.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when Mr. Sneddon put it in front of you, he never said, “Tell me where people were sitting”.
Davellin Arvizo: From what I remember, “Where do you think they were sitting”.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. Was this during that short meeting you had a couple days ago.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Mr. Sneddon and you agree that was only a 15-minute meeting.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah. There was two meetings and they were both pretty short.
Mr. Mesereau: With Mr. Sneddon.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, Mr. Sneddon, and then Mr. Robel would come in. It was an open area. It was right in front of the kitchen.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you indicated yesterday that at some point on the plane, Mr. Jackson gave Gavin his watch, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said at some point on that plane trip, Mr. Jackson gave Gavin his jacket.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, was this after Mr. Jackson had given the family an automobile.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes. The automobile was given during Gavin's cancer. That was -- the watch and the jacket were on the plane.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you indicated you saw some whispering between Mr. Jackson and Gavin, but you didn't hear what it was.
Davellin Arvizo: No, they were whispering and they were passing the Diet Coke can back and forth.
Mr. Mesereau: And you have no idea if Gavin asked Mr. Jackson for a watch, because you couldn't hear, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: All I know is that Mr. Jackson gave it to him.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And at some point, I believe you said that it was Ronald who wanted the watch from you, your family.
Davellin Arvizo: No, Dieter was the one that wanted it back.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that at Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, it was.
Mr. Mesereau: So Dieter appeared upset that Mr. Jackson had given Gavin a watch, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Did Dieter ever try to get the car back.
Davellin Arvizo: I didn't meet Dieter at that time.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first meet Dieter.
Davellin Arvizo: At Miami.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And was this in the suite.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, it was.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first see Dieter try and get that watch back.
Davellin Arvizo: We were all together in one of the guest rooms. And he was asking Gavin for the watch back.
Mr. Mesereau: And Mr. Jackson wasn't there, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You did say yesterday, in response to the prosecutor's question about the plane, that people would switch their seats around, remember.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, that would be Star, Aldo and Marie Nicole that would switch their seats around.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see -- excuse me. I'm sorry. Let me rephrase that. Strike that. Did you ever see Aldo and Marie Nicole switch their seats around.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, they would switch back with Star. They would go back and forth.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know where the doctor sat on the plane.
Davellin Arvizo: He was in one of those four chairs that were behind me. I don't remember where.
Mr. Mesereau: Yesterday did you tell the prosecutor where the doctor was seated.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I just wrote that he was in one of those four seats.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And he was with the two nannies, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes. And my mom was sitting -- all those four -- in those four seats were my mom, the doctor, and the two nannies. I don't know how they were seated or anything.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And is it your recollection that Mr. Jackson was facing the rear of the plane.
Davellin Arvizo: He was facing the front of the plane.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where were you facing.
Davellin Arvizo: I was facing the back of the plane, right in front of Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And who was next to you.
Davellin Arvizo: Paris was.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And the doctor was at the back of the plane facing the front, to your knowledge.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know where he was seated. All I know is he was in those four chairs behind me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Gavin's illness lasted approximately a year, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And he had a number of surgeries, right.
Davellin Arvizo: He had one major surgery.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What was that for, if you know. Didn't they remove the spleen.
Davellin Arvizo: They took out his spleen. They took out a 16-pound tumor. They took out lymph nodes. They took out the -- that's all I remember. They took out his kidney, because it was totally eaten by the cancer. And that's all I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you said on the rebuttal tape that you thought Mr. Jackson had helped him recover, were you telling the truth.
Davellin Arvizo: I had said that. I don't remember saying that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you ever remember your mother saying Mr. Jackson had helped your brother recover from cancer.
Davellin Arvizo: What do you mean.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as to vagueness, as to when in point in time.
The Court: Point in time.
Mr. Mesereau: Sure, Your Honor. I'll rephrase.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember, on the rebuttal tape, your mother saying that Mr. Jackson helped your brother Gavin recover from cancer.
Davellin Arvizo: I know she said it on the rebuttal tape.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear her say it any other time.
Davellin Arvizo: No, she owed all credit to God.
Mr. Mesereau: So other than the rebuttal tape, you never heard your mother ever say Mr. Jackson helped Gavin recover from cancer.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: What about when Brad Miller was at Jay Jackson's apartment.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't -- if she did, I don't remember. I was young. It was too long ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, when you arrived from Miami, you were taken to Neverland Ranch, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was that a limousine.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know who drove that.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when you got there, you said that Dieter or Ronald were there, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No, they weren't.
Mr. Mesereau: They weren't there.
Davellin Arvizo: They didn't get there until the next day, I think.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you've never flown with them, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you left Neverland with Jesus Salas, you were in a Rolls Royce, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, we were.
Mr. Mesereau: And your mother asked Jesus to take the family back home, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Jesus put you all in a Rolls Royce and drove you to Los Angeles, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, he drove us. I don't remember -- I think he took us to my grandmother's house.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And at some other point, the family all went back to Neverland, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that.
Davellin Arvizo: Timewise, I don't know. It was so long ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. After you got back from Miami, if you know, how many times did you go back and forth to Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: Twice, I think. I think it was twice.
Mr. Mesereau: Twice.
Davellin Arvizo: Or three times. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: One time you went back with Azja, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Azja drove you to Neverland, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ask her to drive you, or did she just volunteer to, if you know.
Davellin Arvizo: Because we were going to be taken back anyways, because we asked her to take us instead.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When Azja drove you back to Neverland, there was no security person in your car, true.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You mentioned to the jury at one point that you were scared, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when did you get scared, if you remember.
Davellin Arvizo: Like --
Mr. Mesereau: I'm talking about when you were at Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: Like after they started telling us about the death threats and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: After what.
Davellin Arvizo: After they started telling us about the death threats and how Dieter started getting more aggressive.
Mr. Mesereau: Dieter was getting more aggressive.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: This is right after the Miami trip, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No. This is -- this is closer to the rebuttal film.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. So you first started to get scared around the time of the rebuttal film, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you mentioned that Azja drove you back to Neverland, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was your mother in the car.
Davellin Arvizo: No, she wasn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Where was she.
Davellin Arvizo: She was at Jay Jackson's apartment.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you were at Jay Jackson's apartment to talk to the three social workers, your mother never complained that you were being falsely imprisoned, did she.
Davellin Arvizo: About what.
Mr. Mesereau: About anything.
Davellin Arvizo: About falsely imprisoned with who.
Mr. Mesereau: With Frank, with Vinnie, with Dieter, with Konitzer, with Schaffel. Anybody.
Davellin Arvizo: No, we were kind of scared, because the bodyguard was downstairs.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you never told any of the three women from the Department of Children & Family Services, “We need help”, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember, no.
Mr. Mesereau: And your mother certainly never did that, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember, no.
Mr. Mesereau: And you don't recall your mother ever telling Azja, “Call the police; we're having problems”, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I remember there would be occasions that she would call Azja. I don't know what they talked about. And I did talk to Azja once when they were at Neverland Ranch.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never heard your mother ever call the police, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I heard about an occasion, yes, that she tried to.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When was this.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know when it was. But it was when they were at the ranch.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How about when you were at Jay Jackson's house, an active member of the United States Army who your mother was having a relationship with. Do you recall your mother ever saying anything like, “Major Jackson, call the police”. Do you ever recall that.
Davellin Arvizo: She had called, because she dialed up -- if you press 9-1-1 at the Neverland Ranch, it goes to their security.
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Davellin Arvizo: So she had to call Jay and ask him to call.
Mr. Mesereau: How about when she was at Jay Jackson's apartment.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember, no.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. You indicated that an investigator named Bradley Miller took a recorded statement from your whole family.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was at Jay Jackson's apartment, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, it was.
Mr. Mesereau: And Jay Jackson was actually in and out, wasn't he.
Davellin Arvizo: No, he was sitting right there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you're at Jay Jackson's home, with Jay Jackson sitting there, and an investigator is taking a statement. And nobody complains about Dieter, Konitzer, Frank, Vinnie, Schaffel, or anybody, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't think it was at that point. He just asked us to speak of things of my father.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But I'm asking if your mother at that point ever called the police or did anything that suggested that Ronald, Dieter, Frank, Vinnie, anybody was causing problems.
Davellin Arvizo: I guess -- I don't know. You have to ask her what she thought.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, when you were being interviewed by Brad Miller, he asked you about David, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you talked about things like child endangerment and terrorist threats, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember what I said. All I know is I talked about David.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You talked about abusive behavior by him, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember telling Brad Miller that Michael is a father to all of you.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember what I said on the tape. It was very long ago. All I remember is the key point was on David.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember telling Brad Miller Michael has given your family safety, love, and everything you've ever wanted.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember what I said. All I remember is the key point was about David.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Would it refresh your recollection if I just showed you a transcript of what you said.
Davellin Arvizo: No, it wouldn't. I would have to hear my own voice.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't want to see this.
Davellin Arvizo: No, it's okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Did your mother ever tell you that, “We're being forced to make positive statements about Michael Jackson in the interview with Brad Miller”.
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me, Your Honor. I'm going to object as to what point in time. Vague; lack of foundation.
The Court: Sustained; time.
Mr. Mesereau: We're talking about Sunday, February 16th, 2003. Okay. And that's the approximate time you were at Jay Jackson's apartment being interviewed by Brad Miller, right.
Davellin Arvizo: You're asking me what.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, I'm asking you if that sounds like the approximate time you were interviewed by Brad Miller.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know the date. All I know is that he came to Jay Jackson's house.
Mr. Mesereau: Does February of 2003 sound around the time.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it after your trip to Miami.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was it before the rebuttal video.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you think it was around the time of the rebuttal video.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. But Jay Jackson sat at the table.
Davellin Arvizo: We were seated in the living room.
Mr. Mesereau: And Jay Jackson was sitting there during the interview, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, he was.
Mr. Mesereau: Was he introduced to Brad Miller as a member of the United States Army; do you know.
Davellin Arvizo: All I remember -- it's too long ago. All I remember is us sitting on the blue couch. And Bradley Miller had the tape-recorder on the table. And he was asking us questions. And the main subject was David.
Mr. Mesereau: And Jay was just sitting there and listening, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, Bradley Miller said he didn't need him to talk.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So he just sat there and listened, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you complained about stories that were being told about your brother, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object again as lack of foundation and vagueness as to what point in time.
Mr. Mesereau: All my questions, unless I tell you otherwise --
Mr. Sneddon: Well, that's not fair to the witness.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm going to withdraw the question and rephrase it, if you want to do that.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm going to ask you a number of questions about the Brad Miller interview. All right.
Davellin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm going to ask you questions about what you said. All right.
Davellin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: And I'm going to ask you questions about who was there.
Davellin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: And I've already asked you questions about where it was. It was at Jay Jackson's apartment, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Who was there, besides Jay Jackson and you.
Davellin Arvizo: My mom and my two younger brothers.
Mr. Mesereau: And Brad Miller, of course was there, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And have you discussed that interview with anyone with law enforcement.
Davellin Arvizo: We told them that we took the interview, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you discussed that interview with your mother at all.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never have.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: So ever since you had that interview, you've never talked to your mom about it, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Not really, no. It was just strange because he would stop and redo it and say, “That's not necessary to talk about”. He would rewind it. Stop it. I mean, we talked about how strange that was.
Mr. Mesereau: And did Jay Jackson ever say a word.
Davellin Arvizo: No, he never did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did your mom ever complain about that.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. Was it your understanding that the purpose of the interview was to get your feelings about Michael Jackson on tape.
Davellin Arvizo: I thought the purpose was about David.
Mr. Mesereau: Was about David.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: But you and your mother and your brothers kept referring to Michael Jackson as the father, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember what I said. All I remember is that the main focus was David.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, when the rebuttal video was done that we saw in court today --
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- was your mother still involved with Jay Jackson, as far as you know.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were they engaged at that point; do you know.
Davellin Arvizo: No. I don't think so. They were still dating.
Mr. Mesereau: At that point in time, was Andrew Lassak, of the LAPD, a friend of the family.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't think we talked to him at that point. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Bailiff: Mr. Mesereau, I'm going to turn the air conditioner on. So will you speak up.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh. Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you think that Brad Miller didn't want certain statements about David on the tape.
Davellin Arvizo: He didn't want certain statements about -- I don't remember. All I know is he would rewind it, and say, “That's not necessary, we don't need to talk about that”. And he would rewind it, tape over it, stop it, and then, “We're going to talk about this now”, and that's what I remember. And then he would stop and rewind it a lot.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he ever tell you, if you remember, that he worked for Mark Geragos.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I thought he was just from Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. At the beginning of that interview, he says he works for Mr. Geragos, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember. All I remember is that he was from Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you discussed this issue with your mother at any time.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you knew that your mother was going to testify in a pre-trial hearing in this case, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I knew she was coming up here, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss what she was going to be asked with her.
Davellin Arvizo: I didn't know what she was being asked. All I know is that she came up here.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever talk to her about what she said after she appeared in court.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever discussed it one time with her.
Davellin Arvizo: Huh-uh.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. At the time she testified in a pre-trial hearing in this case, you were living with her, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I've been living with them ever since I started college.
Mr. Mesereau: And you're not aware of you and your brothers ever talking to her about what she said in court that day, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I don't remember hearing her talk about anything with the court.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall her coming back home after she testified in a pre-trial hearing in this case.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, I remember her coming home.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever discussing what went on with her.
Davellin Arvizo: No, we just greeted her, and that was it. And the baby was there with her.
Mr. Mesereau: And so everybody just agreed to be silent.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, we know we're not supposed to talk about each other.
Mr. Mesereau: Who told you that.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, they told us that.
Mr. Mesereau: Who did.
Davellin Arvizo: Mr. Sneddon and everybody with law enforcement.
Mr. Mesereau: So you never discussed this case with each other at all.
Davellin Arvizo: No, we know we're not supposed to.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Can I take a second.
Mr. Mesereau: Around the time that you were visiting Neverland, say in 2002, did you use a computer.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I never used a computer when I was up there.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you able to use a computer.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever use a computer at Carol LaMere's home.
Davellin Arvizo: Once, because she had me doing her son's project.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you use a computer at her home.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah. One time, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever discuss your use of the computer with her.
Davellin Arvizo: She was the one that told me to get on the computer and do his project.
Mr. Mesereau: Around the time that you first visited Neverland, did you have a computer at home.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, Mr. Jackson had given Gavin a computer on our first visit, when we got there.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he take that computer home.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: Was the family using it at home.
Davellin Arvizo: Mainly Gavin would use it.
Mr. Mesereau: Did anyone else use it.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever use it.
Davellin Arvizo: No, not really. Just when I was seeing what Gavin was doing. But not really.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the only computer you had at home.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some point, did Gavin take that computer out of the home.
Davellin Arvizo: No. What happened was -- I don't know who or what happened, that he had called saying that the -- something was messing up with it. So he sent it to Mr. Jackson's people, and we never got it back.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And your mother used to complain about that, right.
Davellin Arvizo: About what.
Mr. Mesereau: Not getting the computer back.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: And she used to complain about not getting the car back, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You never heard her do that.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you said yesterday at some point the car didn't work, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And it went back to Neverland, you thought, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I just knew that somebody came and picked it up. I didn't know where it went.
Mr. Mesereau: Your mother used to complain about that, didn't she.
Davellin Arvizo: Complain about what.
Mr. Mesereau: The fact that it was her car at that point.
Davellin Arvizo: No, it wasn't her car. We still called it Gavin's car.
The Court: Counsel.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
The Court: Break time.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, does the Court have the right button on there for “PC”.
The Court: There's two inputs, either 1 or 4.
The Bailiff: Input 1.
The Court: That's 1; and that's 4. 1 is for the PC, I'm told. Anything that goes through the PC, I push 1; and any other media, I would push 4.
Mr. Sanger: 4.
The Court: Is there some other subject you could cover. We've got less than an hour, and they could have that ready for you Monday morning on the tape.
Mr. Mesereau: I could do that.
The Court: Can you.
Mr. Mesereau: Sure.
The Court: Let's try that.
Mr. Mesereau: May I ask how long it might take. Because I'd love to end the day with this, if I can.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: I think -- we're not sure how long it would take. So I could move on, if you'd like.
The Court: I think it would be a better use of time than -- he's working under a great deal of pressure with all of us watching him.
Mr. Sanger: The watched pot phenomenon.
The Court: We work better when we're all calm and sure.
The Bailiff: Can we try using that one. Take that one out and use that one.
Mr. Sanger: I think you need to go to 4, then, for this; is that right.
Mr. Mesereau: I think we're ready to go, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. We'll go.
Mr. Mesereau: Ms. Arvizo, you testified yesterday that you went into the arcade area at Neverland one time.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: A juke box was moved and you went into a wine cellar, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I had saw some people going down in the staircase, so I just followed.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you've testified that you saw Michael Jackson pouring wine, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You said that Michael Jackson gave you a glass of wine to drink, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said it tasted --
Davellin Arvizo: Funny.
Mr. Mesereau: Funny.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't want to drink it, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I only took a couple of sips, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember you were interviewed by the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department July 6th, 2003, and asked questions about that.
Davellin Arvizo: I know I was asked questions about it, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You were asked by a Santa Barbara sheriff how you knew it was wine, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And your answer was, you knew it was wine because it's a wine cellar and there's nothing else to be drinking in a wine cellar, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, there is wine bottles along the left wall.
Mr. Mesereau: Never told them you had seen Michael Jackson pouring wine from any bottle, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: They never asked me that question, but I did see him.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, they asked you how you knew it was wine, and your answer was, “They were in a wine cellar and there's nothing else to be drinking in a wine cellar”, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: I'm not going to grab a cup off the counter. It was handed to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, why didn't you tell that to the Santa Barbara sheriffs then.
Davellin Arvizo: They didn't ask me about it.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, they actually did. Would it refresh your recollection to show you the police report.
Davellin Arvizo: I just told them about the building. And they said how did I know it was wine. Because it was a wine cellar.
Mr. Mesereau: But yesterday, you said you saw Michael Jackson pouring a bottle of wine into a cup, true.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: That's not what you told the sheriffs on that day, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, I was in a wine cellar also. I didn't know I had to say every little detail. I was young back then. I didn't know I had to say every little detail for it to be right. Different things come up.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. On that particular day, you never said you saw Michael Jackson pouring wine and you never even told them that he gave you wine, right.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object as argumentative and asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did someone tell you that when the defense lawyer asks you questions in court, if you've got a problem, to say, “I was very young and I just don't remember”.
Davellin Arvizo: No, that's -- I have no way of knowing, because it was years ago. I was very young.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever use that stock phrase in answering any of the prosecutor's questions.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. Maybe I did; maybe I didn't. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, nobody told you that, when in trouble or when in doubt, that's what you say.
Davellin Arvizo: Nobody told me what to say. When I say it, it's from me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You mentioned that, at one point, you drove to The Laugh Factory on Sunset, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And The Laugh Factory is on a corner on Sunset in Los Angeles, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You've been there many times, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said you met a lawyer at The Laugh Factory, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I didn't know who he was. I just saw -- I just was introduced that he was Bill. I just ran up there real quick to give my mom the message that Vinnie had given me. I didn't know who he was.
Mr. Mesereau: But correct me if I'm wrong, you were in a car, you drive to The Laugh Factory, right. Your mom gets out, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: She goes into The Laugh Factory, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Her and Gavin go in together and Vinnie asked us to stay.
Mr. Mesereau: And they see a civil lawyer in there, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I didn't know who he was at that point.
Mr. Mesereau: But you do know now, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I still kind of really don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you've had meetings with him.
Davellin Arvizo: I know he's a lawyer, but I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times have you met with him.
Davellin Arvizo: Once.
Mr. Mesereau: And when was that, approximately.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, let me ask you this: Your mother went into The Laugh Factory and met with Jamie Masada and a lawyer named Dickerman, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I just saw him there. I didn't know he was a lawyer at that point.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, your mother never complained that anybody's being falsely imprisoned or abused or told what to say or restrained or anything.
Davellin Arvizo: You got to ask her. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever discussed what she said to that lawyer with her.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to that question. Lack of foundation. And also, it could be a violation of attorney-client privilege.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, that privilege was waived a long time ago.
Mr. Sneddon: No, it wasn't.
The Court: I'll allow the question. Actually, there is -- the question and the answer was given before the objection. The question was, “Have you ever discussed what she said to that lawyer with her”. “Answer: I don't know”. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, when your mother and Gavin got out of the car, went into The Laugh Factory, saw a lawyer, saw Jamie Masada, they never complained that anyone was being held against their will, to your knowledge, right.
Davellin Arvizo: All I knew is that they were going in to see Jamie Masada. I walked in, saw Bill, Mr. Masada, my mom and Gavin sitting there, and I gave my mom the message Vinnie had given me, and I walked right out. I don't know what they said. I don't know what happened.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've never, to this day, discussed with your mother what was said.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: But since that day, you've met with this lawyer named Dickerman, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Once, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, has your mother had a lot of meetings with Dickerman.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know. You have never discussed it with her.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Okay. After that meeting was over, did your mother and Gavin come out of The Laugh Factory.
Davellin Arvizo: About five minutes after I had ran in and given them the message from Vinnie.
Mr. Mesereau: How long had they been in The Laugh Factory, if you really know.
Davellin Arvizo: Before Vinnie started getting impatient, about 15 minutes or so. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did you go after they got back in the car, after they were in The Laugh Factory.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember whether we went back to Neverland or to Calabasas. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: But it was one of the two, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And your stay at the Calabasas Inn was about two days, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember how long it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever tell someone named Simone that your mother wanted to go to Brazil.
Davellin Arvizo: I've never told anybody. I don't remember that person.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell someone named Rio that your mother wanted to go to Brazil, but your brothers didn't want to go.
Davellin Arvizo: I never -- I don't know who that person is.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, at this point we'd like to play the Brad Miller taped interview.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: Can we mark it as next in order.
The Court: It's just an audiotape, right.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, it is, Your Honor. We need to mark it next in order.
The Court: It's not marked.
Mr. Sanger: It's in the machine. If we can mark it when we take it out.
The Clerk: It would be Defense Exhibit 5000.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: That's what their exhibits start with.
The Clerk: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: We'll see if it works, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: For the record, I have no objection. I'll waive the foundation.
The Court: Thank you. (Whereupon, a portion of an audiotape, Defendant's Exhibit 5000, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: I don't think that's going to work. It's not working. It's not working.
Mr. Sanger: It was working here, but we couldn't get it through the wires to the --
The Court: Well, you can work with the technician after court and play it Monday.
Mr. Sanger: We can do that. Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: You left Jay Jackson's and you went to The Laugh Factory, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know what you're talking about. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: When you left Jay Jackson's after the tape-recorded statement, did you go to Neverland or The Laugh Factory.
Davellin Arvizo: I think that's the point I went to The Laugh Factory. I'm not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you leave Major Jay Jackson at his residence.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Vinnie pick you up at Major Jay Jackson's home.
Davellin Arvizo: I think it was Vinnie. Because Vinnie's the one that brought us to The Laugh Factory, but I'm not sure. But I know he was the one that took us to The Laugh Factory.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did Vinnie take you to Hamid Moslehi's home as well.
Davellin Arvizo: No. It was Hamid that came and picked us up at Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: What kind of car did Vinnie drive.
Davellin Arvizo: They had the -- it's like a silver Buick. I think it was a Buick. I'm not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember when you went to get a passport.
Davellin Arvizo: I kind of do, but I know we went to, like, an office-type place, but --
Mr. Mesereau: Well, it was a federal building, wasn't it.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was in Los Angeles, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, it was.
Mr. Mesereau: And Vinnie drove you; is that correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes. Yes, it is.
Mr. Mesereau: And he parked the car somewhere near the federal building, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I guess, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were with your mom, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, we were all together.
Mr. Mesereau: With Gavin and Star, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You parked your car, and all of you got out of the car and walked into the federal building, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear anybody scream, “Help, we're being held against our will”, or words to that effect.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: There were federal employees and agents all over that building, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And nobody said a word, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah. They're that scary.
Mr. Mesereau: Your mother came up with the idea of calling Michael Jackson “Daddy”, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You testified yesterday that your mother never came out of the cottage, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's not true, is it.
Davellin Arvizo: That is true.
Mr. Mesereau: Your mother was in the theater from time to time, was she not.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You were never in the theater with your mother and your brothers watching a film at Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: On the first visit, I think we went and all saw something. That was the very first visit of -- with David and everything. But other than that, I don't remember us going in the theater.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember the time you, your mother, Gavin and Star and Michael Jackson were in the theater and your mother asked everyone to “kneel down and say a prayer to Daddy”.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you ever remember being in the theater at Neverland with your mother, Gavin, Star and Michael Jackson.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you ever remember being with your mother at this zoo at Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: On the very, very first visit when we all came up together with David, we did go to the zoo.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you saying that, after that, your mother never left her cottage.
Davellin Arvizo: My mom didn't leave her cottage.
Mr. Mesereau: Were her meals served at the cottage, to your knowledge.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, they were brought to her.
Mr. Mesereau: Three times a day.
Davellin Arvizo: I think it's -- I don't know. I wasn't watching.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember, your mother told the three social workers from the Los Angeles Department of Children & Family Services that she's always at the main residence.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Remember, she told those workers that she's there all times of day.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you think your mother was lying.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you think your mother lied throughout that interview.
Davellin Arvizo: Somewhat. I don't know. But I know those comments can't be true.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was the day you lied about bringing girlfriends to Neverland, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And you're telling this jury that you've never brought any girlfriend to Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: But you told it to the Los Angeles Department of Children & Family Services.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss with your mother ahead of time that you were going to tell those social workers that you bring your girlfriend to Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember, no.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't remember ever talking to your mom about what you were going to say.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you in the room when your mother told her lies to the social workers.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know if it was all lies. I don't know. I don't remember what was said.
Mr. Mesereau: But you remember some of them were lies, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, I remember -- when you tell me certain things, I do remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, at some point, you learned your mother didn't want to go to Brazil, right.
Davellin Arvizo: She didn't want to go to Brazil at all.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, at some point, you learned that you weren't going to Brazil, right.
Davellin Arvizo: My mom didn't want to go at all.
Mr. Mesereau: I know you're saying that.
Davellin Arvizo: When that subject was brought up.
Mr. Mesereau: And your position is, that you've never told any other witness that your mother wanted to go to Brazil, but your brothers wanted to stay, right.
Davellin Arvizo: My brothers wanted to stay and be with Michael, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point, instead of going to Brazil, your entire family was brought home, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who brought them home.
Davellin Arvizo: I think it was Vinnie that brought us all back to my grandmother's house.
Mr. Mesereau: So Vinnie drove you to your grandmother's house and dropped the family off, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, because we had to make up -- my mom called me and said vaguely, “Your grandfather's sick. You need to come home. Davellin, get your stuff together, it's time to go”. And she just -- you could tell she just wanted to get us out of there.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you went to leave, Vinnie took you to your grandparents, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, they were kind of irritated about the whole fact we had asked them over and over, and they finally agreed to it.
Mr. Mesereau: I know what you're saying. But the reality is, when you wanted to leave, you went home, right.
Davellin Arvizo: After a hassle, yes, we did.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you asked Jesus Salas on an earlier date to take you to Los Angeles in the middle of the night, he did it, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, we had to do it very quiet, and we had to be very quiet.
Mr. Mesereau: I know your position. Have you discussed what words you're going to say about this event with anybody before today.
Davellin Arvizo: No, these are my feelings. This is what I saw happening.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. You testified yesterday that when you were in Michael Jackson's bedroom, you saw alcohol, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: You said, “I know the shape of bottles, but I don't know what they were”, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never tasted what was in those bottles, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I just saw that they were there in the bedroom.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You never said Mr. Jackson gave you anything that was in those bottles, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Not while in the bedroom, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What else did you see in Mr. Jackson's room that only time you say you were there.
Davellin Arvizo: Other than what I've already said.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember anything else.
Mr. Mesereau: Remember any pictures on the walls.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Any toys in the room.
Davellin Arvizo: Don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know where his children were at that point.
Davellin Arvizo: I think they were there at the beginning, but then the nannies came and got them. I'm not sure about that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you see nannies in the main house at that point.
Davellin Arvizo: When I was --
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me, Your Honor, I'm going to object as to what “that point” is as vague.
Mr. Mesereau: Sure.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: When you went to Mr. Jackson's bedroom for the only time you say you were ever there, you saw nannies, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: When they came and got them.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see the room the nannies live in.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet the nannies at Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: I met -- I had met Grace the first time we had went, with David and everybody. But I met the second nanny at Miami.
Mr. Mesereau: Two nannies, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Same nannies you saw at Neverland when you were in Michael's room, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever told anyone that you were in Michael's room more than once.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You testified when you were at the Calabasas Inn, you went shopping, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you go shopping.
Davellin Arvizo: For the suitcases, we went to an outlet mall. And then for the clothes, we went to like a mall-mall.
Mr. Mesereau: And you went to a number of stores in the mall where you bought clothes, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No, we just went to one department store. That's all I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall anyone in that department store saying words to the effect, “Help, we're being restrained or held against our will”.
Davellin Arvizo: No, none of us said that. Vinnie was with us the whole time.
Mr. Mesereau: You said you went to a -- was it a Walgreen's where you had a photo taken.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, we did.
Mr. Mesereau: Where was that Walgreen's located, if you know.
Davellin Arvizo: Near Calabasas, I guess. It was when we were at Calabasas.
Mr. Mesereau: When you went into the Walgreen's, do you recall anybody saying words to the effect, “Help, we're being held against our will”.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall security personnel in any of those malls.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall security personnel in Walgreen's.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall security personnel in the store you went and bought clothes at.
Davellin Arvizo: There was -- I don't remember seeing any.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you eat that day when you were shopping; do you know.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: It was not at the hotel, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I think there was the one time he took us to eat somewhere. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: But you certainly don't recall your mom or anybody telling anybody at the restaurant, “Help us, we're being restrained or held against our will”, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How long were you in Walgreen's; do you know.
Davellin Arvizo: 20 minutes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you had your photo taken.
Davellin Arvizo: All of us did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you ever discussed the J.C. Penney case with your dad.
Davellin Arvizo: Which dad. My stepfather or David.
Mr. Mesereau: David.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never talked to him about it at all.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And I think I asked you this earlier. If I did, I apologize. You never discussed the J.C. Penney case with Gavin or your mom, right.
Davellin Arvizo: None of them.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Ever see your mom, during the J.C. Penney case, ask your brothers to write out what happened and then go over it with them.
Davellin Arvizo: No. The only -- the only writing I saw was David would sit at the kitchen table and write, but that's the only writing that I saw.
Mr. Mesereau: Never saw your mother do it.
Davellin Arvizo: Never saw her write anything.
Mr. Mesereau: Was David writing about what happened at J.C. Penney.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know what he was writing, but I think that he liked to do notes or whatever. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: But why do you remember that when I mentioned J.C. Penney.
Davellin Arvizo: Because that's -- that's the only notes that I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: About J.C. Penney.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: So you remember David writing notes about J.C. Penney.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember what he did with those notes.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. I guess he was just reviewing what he thought or what happened to him or whatever. I don't know what he was writing about, really. But I know that he would write a lot.
Mr. Mesereau: About J.C. Penney, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I guess so. You have to ask him. I don't know what he was writing.
Mr. Mesereau: But clearly, if this jogs your memory a little bit, it must have been the time of that case you saw David writing things out.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah. He's not really good with -- memory-wise, so I don't know. You'll have to ask him.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you see David talking to your mom about what he was writing.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember what happened. I was too young to remember. And all I remember about that case is Gavin's elbow, and we came and picked him up. He was hurting and Star's head was hurting. That's all I remember. I wasn't involved in that case at all.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Do you recall your mom saying that David's brother Ray will have people killed.
Davellin Arvizo: David had said that.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Davellin Arvizo: David had told me that.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, have you ever told people that your mom talked about that.
Davellin Arvizo: No. David was the one that told that to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Told you that he had a brother Ray that can have people killed.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, I know he has a brother Ray, and David always said, “Oh, my brother has connections”, and stuff like that. And when he held me in that car that time, that's when he told me all those threats and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: But your mom's never discussed it, to your knowledge.
Davellin Arvizo: No, she --
Mr. Mesereau: Never talked about it.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever see your mom dancing on the premises at Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: No, not that I remember. She was always in her room.
Mr. Mesereau: So she'd stay in her room for days and days, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Which visit are you talking about.
Mr. Mesereau: How about any visit.
Davellin Arvizo: The only visit that I really saw her come out was the first visit. And after that, the other visit, she never really came out.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know anything about your mother wanting to set up an account -- a bank account for the money that was raised in the fund-raisers.
Davellin Arvizo: All I know, Gavin had a trust fund. That's all I know about it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how did you learn about that.
Davellin Arvizo: I just heard about it. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Your mom told you she was setting up a trust fund, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. All I know is Gavin had a trust fund. I don't know who set it up or what, because David and my mom were still together.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever tell Fritz Coleman you wanted him to help raise money.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't -- I've never asked anybody for money.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Let me just ask you if you know some people. Do you know any of the employees at Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: On just a hi/bye basis, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever meet any of the employees at Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: Just a hi and bye.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry.
Davellin Arvizo: Just a hi and bye and --
Mr. Mesereau: So you don't know any of their names.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I just remember how they look.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know Arlene Kennedy.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who was Arlene Kennedy.
Davellin Arvizo: She was the owner of the dance studio that we went to.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last talk to her; do you know.
Davellin Arvizo: A while ago. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember your mother telling Mrs. Kennedy that the press were causing havoc after the Bashir documentary.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember. I know they were, but I don't remember if she told her or not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Your mother constantly complained about the press causing problems after Bashir, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, they'd mainly go to my grandparents' house. Only one person came to the East L.A. apartment. And my grandparents are old and just -- she just wanted to protect them and not have them go through that.
Mr. Mesereau: But you just said the press was causing havoc, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, at my grandparents' house. That's where they would go.
Mr. Mesereau: But your mother always complained about the press causing problems, after Bashir, for your family, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, they are family. Those are my grandparents.
Mr. Mesereau: No, your mother was complaining about what the press was trying to do to you and Gavin and Star and she, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as vague as to when and where; lack of foundation.
Mr. Mesereau: Sure. I thought I said after the Bashir --
Mr. Sneddon: Well, that's wide open.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it, Your Honor.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: Shortly after the Bashir documentary, your family was hassled by media, true.
Davellin Arvizo: Just one came to the East L.A. apartment where we were at. The rest were constantly going to my grandparents' house.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, it sounds like you've memorized that answer, because you've said the same identical answer so many times.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as argumentative. Ask that be stricken.
The Court: Sustained as argumentative.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll withdraw it.
Mr. Mesereau: After the Bashir documentary, is it true that your mother spoke to a lot of people in your presence and complained about the media.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes. The media that was going to my grandparents' house. That's where my mom's, like, driver's license and everything is registered at.
Mr. Mesereau: After the Bashir documentary, didn't your mother constantly complain about the way Gavin was hassled.
Davellin Arvizo: One reporter -- okay, one -- there were two of them together, but it was one that came to the East L.A. apartment. The rest were going to my grandparents' house. That's all I remember.
The Court: Just a moment. You're not listening to the question. He's not asking you what happened. He's asking you about a complaint. Would you read the question back to her.
The Court Reporter: After the Bashir documentary, didn't your mother constantly complain about the way Gavin was hassled.
Davellin Arvizo: No. Only one came to the apartment, and I don't know.
The Court: Just -- no, just answer the question.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you go over that answer with anyone before you testified today.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you -- in your meeting with Mr. Sneddon, did you talk about what your response to that question was going to be.
Davellin Arvizo: No, we didn't talk about that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did anyone tell you to memorize that answer and just repeat it every time you were asked that question.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You'd agree that whenever you're asked that question, the same identical words come out.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object, and ask that be stricken and counsel be admonished. This is like the fourth time within the last five minutes.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll withdraw it.
Mr. Sneddon: I'll order -- ask that the jury be ordered to disregard the statement of counsel.
The Court: The objection is sustained. You're admonished not to argue with the witness.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: You said George Lopez was a close friend of your family, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you last see George Lopez.
Davellin Arvizo: It was during Gavin's cancer, because David's the one that demolished that relationship.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet with him a number of times.
Davellin Arvizo: He would go to the hospital and visit Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you there when he visited Gavin.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, he would bring him, like, a little toy car and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see him at The Laugh Factory.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times, if you can estimate.
Davellin Arvizo: We saw him much -- he was the one that was our personal one that they had chosen for us, to teach us how to do our little comedy acts.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he teach you and your brothers how to do comedy routines.
Davellin Arvizo: While we were at The Laugh Factory, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was he part of the class you took there.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: At some time, your father had a falling out with George Lopez, right.
Davellin Arvizo: What do you mean by that. Like the relationship was gone.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, because of David's fault, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. At some point, your mother accused George Lopez of stealing 300 bucks from Gavin, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear anything about that.
Davellin Arvizo: No. I never heard anything like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you certainly heard something about why the relationship ended --
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- right. And you're blaming that all on David, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes. Because he went and he argued with George.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know what he argued about.
Davellin Arvizo: All I know is it was an open event, and he went to argue with George about -- I don't know what it was about. And after that, George didn't -- told him he didn't want to see him ever again.
Mr. Mesereau: After that event, did George ever see your mother, you, Gavin or Star again.
Davellin Arvizo: He didn't come and see us anymore.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you try to reach him.
Davellin Arvizo: No. David had told us that George didn't want to see us anymore.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know someone named Brett Ratner.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who is Brett Ratner.
Davellin Arvizo: He was the director for Rush Hour 2.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you meet him.
Davellin Arvizo: On the set of Rush Hour 2.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Chris Tucker introduce you to him.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you get to know him pretty well.
Davellin Arvizo: Somewhat. Not really.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever at his house.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hang out with him anyplace.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see him off the set of Rush Hour.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, Chris took us to like -- like a restaurant they were at. And we just sat with them for like a couple minutes, and then I think we went back to our hotel room.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last see him.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Gavin talking to Brett Ratner.
Davellin Arvizo: While they were on the set, yeah. They would play with each other and laugh and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, getting back to your comments that you saw a change in your brother at some point. Remember those comments you made in response to the prosecutor's questions.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have any knowledge of an event where Gavin --
The Court: They can't hear you now.
The Bailiff: You have your book on the microphone. You turned it off.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh, the book's on the....
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall an event where your brother Gavin shot your mother with a BB gun.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, I do. He shot me also.
Mr. Mesereau: When did that happen.
Davellin Arvizo: That was after we came back from -- after we left Neverland for good.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And he took a BB gun and shot the two of you.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, he did. He was always -- from the point that he left Neverland, he had changed dramatically into an aggressive person.
Mr. Mesereau: But he never was aggressive in school before he had gone to Neverland, is that what you're saying.
Davellin Arvizo: No, he never got into fights and stuff at school, not that I remember. He was just very talkative.
Mr. Mesereau: But he was thrown out, wasn't he.
Davellin Arvizo: No, he was never thrown out of school.
Mr. Mesereau: Was he ever thrown out of class, to your knowledge.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know.
Davellin Arvizo: Gavin had never been aggressive to me and my mom before.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you aware of your brothers, Star and Gavin, ever being caught in the wine cellar at Neverland alone.
Davellin Arvizo: No. They were always with Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: How do you know that.
Davellin Arvizo: Because that's -- I never saw them anywhere by themselves. If I did see them, they were with him.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't you say that you didn't hang out with them at Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, but I would go around the ranch. And every time that I saw them passing by, or I would go in a room that they were, like, in the office or anything, they were with him.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn that Gavin and Star were caught breaking into the wine cellar at Neverland without Michael Jackson anywhere in sight.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I never heard of that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn that Gavin and Star were caught with alcohol at other parts of Neverland without Michael Jackson ever being there.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that -- I never heard of that ever.
Mr. Mesereau: Never heard of that at all.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
The Court: I can tell it's late Friday afternoon. Can't you. Let me have counsel approach for a second.
Mr. Sneddon: May I go this way, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes. (Off-the-record discussion held at sidebar.)
The Court: We've had a very serious conference here. We're going to quit ten minutes early. I can -- I can tell when things are going downhill. (Laughter.) Let me remind you, you know, the admonishment applies every day, every minute. But we're going -- we've gone through a long week here, and now we're going to go through a weekend. And it's extremely important that you keep in mind that you don't talk to anybody about the case or anything related to the case, don't watch news reports or listen to television, none of that. Remember the admonition. It's extremely important. People are watching you. You know, you're -- people in the community are watching you. And it's just -- just so important that you follow this admonition. And another important admonition is don't form any opinions about this case until you've heard all the evidence, you've heard the instructions of the law, and you've had an opportunity to hear counsel argue their -- how they think the facts and the law come together for your judgment. If you reach the judgment before all of that happens, you would be short-changing one side or the other, or both sides. Certainly the system of justice. So let's keep an open mind, and I'll see you Monday at 8:30. One final thing. I'm announcing now that the grand jury transcript is unsealed. And Lorna, that has to be in the minutes.
The Clerk: All right.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:20 p.m.
