Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Monday, March 7, 2005 8:30 a.m.
The Court: Good morning.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
The Court: Mr. Mesereau.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor. Should I check this, double-check this. Hello.
The Jury: Hello.
Mr. Mesereau: All right.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION Continued
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Arvizo, you testified last week that you recall a trip from Neverland with Michael Jackson to a store named Toys R Us; do you remember that.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you testified that Mr. Jackson took you and your brothers and some fans to Toys R Us, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when that was.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember when.
Mr. Mesereau: And you did say that on the way Mr. Jackson saw some fans and picked them up, and you all went to Toys R Us together, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Mr. Jackson paid for toys for everybody, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall anybody ever complaining that they were being falsely imprisoned at Toys R Us.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall anybody complaining that they were there against their will, at Toys R Us.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, do you know what a sworn deposition is in a civil case.
Davellin Arvizo: Kind of. Not really.
Mr. Mesereau: Has anyone ever told you that a sworn deposition is a procedure in a civil case where somebody sits down and answers questions under oath.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who told you that.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, I was sitting in the one that Gavin took during the J.C. Penney's case.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were also sitting in the one that Star gave in the J.C. Penney case, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember that. I was just sitting with Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, didn't you tell the jury last week that you know nothing about the J.C. Penney case.
Davellin Arvizo: I just remembered right now when you said “deposition”.
Mr. Mesereau: So you sat there in Gavin's deposition in the J.C. Penney case, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Because he wanted me to be next to him, and I held his hand.
Mr. Mesereau: And your mother was there too, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember her sitting there.
Mr. Mesereau: You also sat in Star's deposition, true.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember sitting in Star's.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you the page of the deposition transcript that lists you as attending.
Davellin Arvizo: (Nods head up and down.)
Mr. Mesereau: Could I show it to you.
Davellin Arvizo: That's fine. I just didn't remember. All I remember is really sitting with Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Davellin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that page.
Davellin Arvizo: No, that was the first time.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, does it refresh your recollection that you were present for Star's deposition as well.
Davellin Arvizo: All I remember is the taping of Gavin's. I don't remember Star's.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What -- my point is this: When you told the jury last week you didn't know anything about the J.C. Penney case, that wasn't correct, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, when you said “deposition”, it refreshed my memory. That was a long time ago. I was, like, 11.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you also told the jury last week you have no knowledge of Gavin having disciplinary problems at school before he ever met Mr. Jackson, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I know he talks a lot, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, that's what you said, the only problem you were aware of is that he was talkative, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You also said to -- you were asked by me, “To your knowledge, was he ever asked to leave school”, and you said you don't know, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't -- no, I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you sat there in Gavin's deposition in the J.C. Penney case where he admitted that he got in lots of fights and got thrown out of school, right. You were sitting right there, right.
Davellin Arvizo: He's never been thrown out of school.
Mr. Mesereau: You heard him say it under oath, didn't you.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember. It was a long time ago. All I remember, I was in my grandmother's house, and I was holding his hand, and they were taping the deposition. That's all I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember at the deposition Gavin was asked, “Have you ever had problems at school where you got into a lot of fights”. And he said, “Yes”.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object as asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember Gavin saying he was thrown out of school for fighting.
Mr. Sneddon: Object; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you telling the jury you never heard Gavin ever make a statement like that at any time.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as asked and answered, and ask the Court to admonish counsel. He knows better than this.
Mr. Mesereau: I object, Your Honor, to the colloquy.
Mr. Sneddon: I have a right to make a record. And I -- I'm asking the Court -- this is the third objection in a row that's been asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained. You may sit down.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you telling the jury today, under oath, that you have no knowledge of Gavin ever being asked to leave school before he met Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled.
Davellin Arvizo: All I know is that he was very talkative. I don't remember. I'm not involved in that.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry, excuse me. I interrupted.
Davellin Arvizo: I'm not involved in that. My mom is.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever discussed with Gavin his being thrown out of school for fighting.
Davellin Arvizo: All I know is he would get in trouble, so I would tell him, “Just be quiet, Gavin. You don't need to talk back”. That's all I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever discussed with Gavin his problems with fights in school before he met Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object as asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember, I asked you last week if you had ever discussed the J.C. Penney case with Gavin or your mom. Remember, I asked you that question.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You said you had not discussed it with either of them, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How could that be, if you attended those depositions.
Davellin Arvizo: I'm not talking to them about it.
Mr. Mesereau: Before.
Davellin Arvizo: No. I haven't talked to them about it at all. I'm just sitting there. I don't know anything about the case. I was just sitting there to comfort my brother. He wanted me to be with him. I'm not even paying attention to what he's saying. I'm just paying attention to how he's looking. And that was during his chemo.
Mr. Mesereau: So you had never discussed the J.C. Penney case with him before you attended his deposition.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never discussed the J.C. Penney case with any of your family members before you attended Star's deposition.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: You never discussed the J.C. Penney case with Gavin or your mom or Star after Gavin's deposition.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never discussed the J.C. Penney case with Star, your mom or Gavin after Star's deposition.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: You just kind of got there, silently listened, left, and never talked to anybody about it, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you testified last week about seeing Mr. Jackson and your brothers go into the wine cellar, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: I saw somebody going downstairs. And then when I was already in the wine cellar, I knew who it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the only time you ever saw anybody go into the wine cellar.
Davellin Arvizo: I saw several times people go down, but I never really went. I always saw, like, open -- people going down, but I never really followed. It was just that one time.
Mr. Mesereau: Just the one time.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you described the --
The Court: Excuse me, Counsel. Mr. Jackson needs to go to the rest room. We'll take a break.
Mr. Oxman: Thank you, Your Honor.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, would it be useful to take care of a stipulation on a technical matter while Mr. Jackson's --
The Court: I think we need to wait till he comes back.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Very well.
Mr. Mesereau: May I see Mr. Jackson, Your Honor. (Brief interruption.)
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall, Miss Arvizo, giving the Santa Barbara Sheriffs a detailed description of the wine cellar at Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you tell them.
Davellin Arvizo: I told them that I walked down the stairs, and then you make a right, and there's a room and it has sleeping bags. And then there's another room, and it's a way smaller room. And on the left-hand side, there's wine bottles on the wall. And then there's a -- I think there's a counter in the room, too, and cupboards.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell them anything about sleeping bags.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you tell them.
Davellin Arvizo: That after you walk down the stairs and you make a right into the room, and I think there's sleeping bags on the wall. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: You told them about cubbyholes with sleeping bags, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you're telling the jury today that you've only been down there one time, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: The truth is, you've been down there many times with your brothers without Mr. Jackson, true.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall being interviewed by the Santa Barbara Sheriffs on August 13th, 2003, or approximately that time.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember, you were asked when you observed the wine cellar, and you said “many times” during your visits to Neverland.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, many times I've seen it. But I never went down there many times.
Mr. Mesereau: How can you see it if you don't go down the stairs into the wine cellar.
Davellin Arvizo: Maybe I misunderstood the questions. But I only remember going down there once and seeing it.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you saying you never told the Santa Barbara Sheriffs you'd been down there many times.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember. All I remember is being down there once and being able to see everything. I don't --
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn that your brothers had been caught down there without Mr. Jackson, having broken into the cellar and drinking.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember that.
Mr. Sneddon: Object. It also -- excuse me. Calls for -- assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you're aware that alcohol is kept in the kitchen area, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell the police there's a glass-like closure on a refrigerator that has alcoholic beverages in the kitchen area.
Davellin Arvizo: I know behind, like, a glass cupboard there's some -- I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see any alcoholic beverages in that refrigerator area.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you've been in that area many times, correct, with your brothers, right.
Davellin Arvizo: When I would go to eat myself, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And typically when would you go to eat by yourself.
Davellin Arvizo: In the afternoon.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you went by yourself, were you easily able to get in the main house.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you get in the main house.
Davellin Arvizo: I would either ring for somebody to come, or if I remembered the code to get into the main house.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you get the code.
Davellin Arvizo: One of the security guards gave it to me.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you have any other codes.
Davellin Arvizo: No. That was the only one I had.
Mr. Mesereau: Your brothers had codes, didn't they.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: They had codes to the wine cellar, didn't they.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: They had codes to Mr. Jackson's room, didn't they.
Davellin Arvizo: I didn't know they had that one.
Mr. Mesereau: And they went up to the room without Mr. Jackson present, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Anytime Mr. Jackson wasn't on the ranch, they were with me.
Mr. Mesereau: That's not what you said last week, is it. Last week you said that when your brothers were on the ranch, they always left you alone, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: No. When Mr. Jackson wasn't on the ranch, they were with me.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you had knowledge that your brothers were going into the main house when Mr. Jackson wasn't even there, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: When Mr. Jackson wasn't there, they were with me. There was no reason for us to be apart if Mr. Jackson wasn't there.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you -- correct me if I'm wrong, didn't you tell the jury last week, “When I would visit Neverland, my brothers would go off and, for the most part, leave me alone”. Did you say that.
Davellin Arvizo: If Mr. Jackson was there, yes, I said that last week.
Mr. Mesereau: So you're -- now you're saying whenever Mr. Jackson wasn't there, all three of you hung around together; is that right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you go into the main house together when Mr. Jackson wasn't there.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes. To go eat and watch T.V., yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many times do you think you did that when Mr. Jackson wasn't there.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Many times, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, they're growing boys. They wanted to eat a lot, I guess.
Mr. Mesereau: And you visited Neverland many occasions when Mr. Jackson wasn't even there, right.
Davellin Arvizo: No. Not me.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you went there a couple of times with Chris Tucker, did you not.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Jackson wasn't there during those visits, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you go into the main house with Chris Tucker.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, with -- with Chris Tucker, who was there, and with my brothers, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And would you simply grab food when you wanted it.
Davellin Arvizo: Whatever was on the -- where the drinks were. I wouldn't go into the kitchen.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, if you go in the main house, you walk into a lobby area, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: When you go into the -- through the back way, there's glass refrigerators, and I would grab a drink from there. But I wouldn't go into the kitchen area and grab stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you have to go into the kitchen area to grab food, don't you.
Davellin Arvizo: To sit down, and they make it for you.
Mr. Mesereau: But to go in on your own and to pick up food in the kitchen area, you have to go into the kitchen, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, but I'm not going in there where the refrigerators are and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: If you're in the kitchen area, you have to be near the refrigerators, don't you.
Davellin Arvizo: But I'm sitting down. I'm not making it for myself or going through things.
Mr. Mesereau: But if -- you're talking about sitting down at the counter area. Is that what you're talking about.
Davellin Arvizo: Like the bench area, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Mr. Jackson has buns and rolls and things available right where you sit down, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And right to your left is the refrigerator area, true.
Davellin Arvizo: Towards the back area and to the left, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And there's sliding doors, right.
Davellin Arvizo: They're -- no, they're pulling doors.
Mr. Mesereau: How do you know they're pulling doors.
Davellin Arvizo: Because I would open them and get a drink once in a while.
Mr. Mesereau: And your brothers would also, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you will find alcohol in those refrigerator areas, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: All I remember is there was Yoohoos, juice, different waters. I don't remember seeing alcohol.
Mr. Mesereau: But clearly your brothers would go into that refrigerator area when Mr. Jackson wasn't around, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: They would go into the kitchen when Mr. Jackson wasn't around, right.
Davellin Arvizo: To get something, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And they would walk through the house when Mr. Jackson wasn't around, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: We wouldn't really go into the main house, because there wasn't really anything else to do but eat.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you have all kinds of rooms with toys, games, all kinds of things in that main house, don't you.
Davellin Arvizo: But I'm not really interested in those kind of little toys.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, they're not all little toys, now, are they.
Davellin Arvizo: Mainly from what I remember, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Your brothers were caught on numerous occasions in that house with Mr. Jackson absent, right.
Davellin Arvizo: To go get something to eat, that's all I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you described in detail to the sheriffs what you saw in Mr. Jackson's room, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You described in detail that there was a lower level, a stairway, and a higher level, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the sheriffs in detail what you saw on those various levels, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: That's because you were in there on numerous occasions, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And you know that your brothers had that code to get in there when Mr. Jackson wasn't around, didn't they.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, but the outer door, that's locked too.
Mr. Mesereau: But they seemed to get into that also, didn't they.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you gave the Santa Barbara Sheriffs a detailed description of Mr. Jackson's bathroom, right.
Davellin Arvizo: The one that's inside the room, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you had spent time in there, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: No. I never went to the rest room in there.
Mr. Mesereau: How could you give a detailed description of the rest room if you haven't spent time looking at what's in there.
Davellin Arvizo: Because I was in the room the one time, and I was just looking around. I had never been in there. I wanted to see. And you just -- you can look in and see what's in there.
Mr. Mesereau: When your brothers and you were at Neverland without Mr. Jackson, did you go into the theater.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you do in the theater with your brothers when Mr. Jackson wasn't there.
Davellin Arvizo: Watch movies, get little snacks.
Mr. Mesereau: What are the kinds of movies you used to watch.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How did you get the movies.
Davellin Arvizo: We would ask somebody from the front. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you had access to the theater when you wanted, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes. It was open.
Mr. Mesereau: No one ever told you you couldn't enter the theater and watch a film, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Nobody ever told you you couldn't have food in the theater, popcorn, ice cream, sodas, whatever you wanted, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Not that I remember, no.
Mr. Mesereau: And you indicated that one particular -- you first met Mr. Jackson approximately in the year 2000, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You indicated that you didn't come back, you don't think, in the year 2001, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You started to come back in 2002, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When did Chris Tucker first take you to Neverland, if you know.
Davellin Arvizo: In 2001. Because we didn't meet him until 2001.
Mr. Mesereau: And you indicated that at one point Mr. Jackson had given your family a vehicle, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever in any discussions with Azja Tucker about getting another vehicle from Chris Tucker.
Davellin Arvizo: I know -- because we didn't have no car at that time. And Chris had told me, “I'm giving you guys a Christmas present, and it's Azja's old car”.
Mr. Mesereau: And you gave Azja and Chris your mother's driver's license information, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You gave it to them so the car could be transferred into your mother's name, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, they wanted it so they could put it in my mom's name.
Mr. Mesereau: You never told them that Michael Jackson had given your car a family as well.
Davellin Arvizo: Well, we didn't have that car at that time. We had no car at that time.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first get a car from Mr. Jackson.
Davellin Arvizo: When Gavin was -- during his chemotherapy. It was for Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: And didn't you tell the jury last week that you never asked Chris Tucker for any assistance.
Davellin Arvizo: We didn't ask him for it. He said, “I want to give this to you guys for a Christmas present”.
Mr. Mesereau: So you then got the driver's license info from your mother and sent it to Chris.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I gave it to Azja.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever get that car.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: What happened.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. It just -- we didn't get it after all, because of -- the communication broke off because of this.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So in your mind, but for this investigation, you would have gotten a second car from Azja, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: We've only -- we didn't have a car at that time, so it wouldn't have been a second car.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: We were driving the bus. We were in the bus.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, at this time I'd like to, with the Court's permission, play the Brad Miller interview tape for the jury.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, let me address a technical matter on that, if I may.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I've talked with Mr. Sneddon, and this is acceptable. We're not quite sure what all the technical problems were, so we got a new disk that was made directly from the original, and it is not the one that's marked 5000. And what we would ask to do - it's in the machine right now - after we play it, we'd ask that the new disk be marked as 5000, and this --
The Bailiff: You need to speak into the microphone.
Mr. Sanger: And this old disk is -- the one that was marked just be given back to us, if that's all right.
The Court: In other words, you want to exchange the new disk for the old disk and keep the same number.
Mr. Sanger: That's correct.
The Court: Is that agreeable, Mr. Sneddon.
Mr. Sneddon: It is, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. I'll approve that.
The Bailiff: Are you playing off the DVD.
Mr. Sanger: We're going to play off the DVD. And with the Court's permission now, we will play Exhibit 5000.
The Bailiff: Are you playing off the player down there.
Mr. Sanger: I'm playing off the player down there.
The Bailiff: So you need to go to “Input 4”, and you need to push the DVD player.
Mr. Sanger: Right. I think they had it all set up.
The Court: And the screen doesn't matter, because it's just an audiotape.
Mr. Sanger: May I proceed, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes. (Whereupon, an audiotape, Defendant's Exhibit No. 5000, was played for the Court and jury.)
The Court: Lorna, is that in evidence.
The Clerk: No.
Mr. Mesereau: May I proceed, Your Honor.
The Court: Are you offering that in evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, we are.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I have no objection. With the Court's permission, I would like an opportunity to get a copy of that one. I won't say anything else. But just -- if the Court would give me permission to get a copy.
The Court: You have permission.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you.
The Court: It's admitted into evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Arvizo, you testified last week that you didn't know Mr. Miller worked for Mr. Geragos, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: He said that twice in this interview, true.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever discussed with your mother who Mr. Brad Miller worked for.
Davellin Arvizo: Wasn't really a subject.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, have you ever discussed it with her.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you know that your mother appeared for a pre-trial hearing in this case a number of months ago, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you knew the issue was whether or not she knew Mr. Miller worked for Geragos, didn't you.
Davellin Arvizo: No. All I knew is she came up here.
Mr. Mesereau: You never discussed what she was coming up here for with her.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And never discussed what she said.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, this interview that you just heard took place on February 16th, 2003, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you heard that date when Mr. Miller began the interview, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: This was after your mother and Gavin had sued J.C. Penney for false imprisonment and sexual assault, true.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And this was after your mother had claimed that security guards at J.C. Penney, in a public parking lot, pulled her breasts out of her blouse and falsely imprisoned her, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I am going to object. There's no facts into evidence of this. She said she didn't know anything about the lawsuit. Counsel is just doing this deliberately.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, this interview on February 16th, 2003, was also after your mother had called the police on David Arvizo, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: It was after she had called the police on David Arvizo and accused him of false imprisonment and molestation, right.
Davellin Arvizo: After I had told her, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Approximately one week after this interview, you and your mother went to another attorney, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: You went to someone named William Dickerman, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know William.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you met with him at The Laugh Factory, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I know his name is Bill. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: And you and your mother met with him to try and put together a lawsuit against Michael Jackson, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I never met with him. I only met with him that one time.
Mr. Mesereau: What time was this.
Davellin Arvizo: A while ago.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when; do you know.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you testified last week that at some point, Vinnie picked you and your mom up and drove you to The Laugh Factory on Sunset, right.
Davellin Arvizo: All of us went. It was me, my brothers, and my mom.
Mr. Mesereau: You all went to The Laugh Factory on Sunset, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was after your interview with the three social workers, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I think so. I don't remember -- no, it wasn't. Because after the interview with the three ladies was when Azja took us up to Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you go to The Laugh Factory on Sunset with Vinnie.
Davellin Arvizo: I think it was during the time we were in Calabasas. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: You stopped at The Laugh Factory with Vinnie, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And your mom got out to meet Jamie Masada and a lawyer named Bill Dickerman, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I didn't know who he was at that time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: And, like, Gavin got off with her.
Mr. Mesereau: So Gavin and your mom went to meet with the attorney named Bill Dickerman in The Laugh Factory, right.
Davellin Arvizo: All I knew is they were going to go see Jamie. I met him when I went upstairs for a few -- couple of seconds. And I didn't hear what they were saying. I just said -- I gave my mom a message and ran back downstairs.
Mr. Mesereau: When you say you met him, do you mean you met Attorney Bill Dickerman.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah, I just saw him there. I didn't really --
Mr. Mesereau: So your mom and Gavin were meeting with him, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Jamie was there also, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's after this interview with Brad Miller on February 16th, 2003, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever meet with Attorney Bill Dickerman after that day at The Laugh Factory.
Davellin Arvizo: A while after, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many times did you meet with Attorney Bill Dickerman.
Davellin Arvizo: Once.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you with your mother.
Davellin Arvizo: All of us were in the room.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you mean Gavin as well.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Star as well.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Is that the only meeting you recall ever having with Attorney Bill Dickerman.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some point, you went and met with an attorney named Larry Feldman, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: That was after you first met Attorney Bill Dickerman, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was at an office in Beverly Hills, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know where it's at.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You went with your mother, Gavin and Star, right.
Davellin Arvizo: And Jamie was there. And so was Jay.
Mr. Mesereau: Jay Jackson.
Davellin Arvizo: I think he went with us. I don't remember. But Jamie was.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at this recorded interview by Brad Miller that we just heard of February 16th, 2003, Major Jay Jackson is sitting there listening to it, right.
Davellin Arvizo: He's sitting there, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And it's in his home, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you're saying that after this interview, Jay Jackson went to a lawyer with the family.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember when we went, but it wasn't during then.
Mr. Mesereau: And the interview with the three social workers was at Jay Jackson's home also, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was Jay Jackson there that day.
Davellin Arvizo: No, he wasn't.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times did you meet with Attorney Larry Feldman.
Davellin Arvizo: Once.
Mr. Mesereau: And at some point, he agreed to represent the whole family, true.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know that.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you knew that he had sued Michael Jackson in the early '90s, true.
Davellin Arvizo: I didn't know who he was. I just --
Mr. Mesereau: Never discussed it with your mom.
Davellin Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Will you agree that shortly after this recorded interview of February 16th, 2003, your family began meeting with lawyers.
Davellin Arvizo: No. It wasn't shortly after then, no.
Mr. Mesereau: How long after it was it.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. But it was way after.
Mr. Mesereau: Way after. Like how long; do you think.
Davellin Arvizo: After March. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you met with Dickerman --
Davellin Arvizo: Once.
Mr. Mesereau: -- on Sunset.
Davellin Arvizo: I didn't meet with him. I just saw him there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And you think that was after you left the Calabasas Inn, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I'm not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, you'd agree that in this recorded interview with Brad Miller, and in the rebuttal videotape that was shown last week, and in your interviews with the social workers, your mother continually praised Michael Jackson as a father figure, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you continually praised Michael Jackson as a father figure, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I was just really copying, because I didn't know what to say. I was just latching onto something because David was never really a father. So I was just latching on something to call a father. I didn't know what a father is.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss with your mother, “We're going to call Michael Jackson a father figure”.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never did.
Davellin Arvizo: No. It's the boys that brought it up.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Well, certainly your mother praises him in all of these interviews as being a father to her children, true.
Davellin Arvizo: I guess seeing the boys so excited, you know, anything that makes us happy, she -- I don't know. She gets it from us.
Mr. Mesereau: You were sitting in this interview when your mother said, essentially, she liked the boys to be with Michael Jackson at night because they're safe, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I think she was just talking about the times that Gavin would go to Neverland with Gavin and we don't know what happened.
Mr. Mesereau: But your mother was encouraging your brothers to go into the main house and be with Michael Jackson, right.
Davellin Arvizo: You would have to ask her that. But I would -- she never encouraged it. It was the boys wanted to be there.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, doesn't she say that in that recorded interview.
Davellin Arvizo: If it makes him happy, she's going to push it. She loves for us to be happy. Anything that makes us happy, she's going to say, “Go ahead, go”.
Mr. Mesereau: But isn't it true that, as far as you know, she pushed your brothers to be in the main house with Michael Jackson shortly before she went to a lawyer to try and develop a lawsuit against him, right.
Davellin Arvizo: What are you asking me. Like --
Mr. Mesereau: If you know an answer to what I just said. Do you have any --
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object as argumentative.
The Court: She's asked you to rephrase the question.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: As far as you know, your mother was encouraging your brothers to be in Michael Jackson's house at night shortly before she went to a lawyer to try and develop a lawsuit against Michael Jackson, right.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object to that question as argumentative and assumes facts not in evidence. It's also compound.
The Court: Sustained on compound.
Mr. Mesereau: You would agree, you heard your mother on many occasions encourage your brothers to go into the main house and spend time with Michael Jackson in the evening, right.
Davellin Arvizo: She wouldn't encourage them. She'd just see them happy. She wouldn't push them to go do it. She just -- they would go.
Mr. Mesereau: You heard your mother --
Davellin Arvizo: I heard it, but I'm telling you what I know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. She would encourage your brothers to spend time with Michael Jackson at night because she wanted Michael to be the father figure in the family, right.
Davellin Arvizo: She never encouraged it. It's whatever the boys want, whatever makes them happy, she's going to let them do.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you said in the interview with Brad Miller, referring to Michael Jackson, “He's a bigger father to all of us. He's given us safety. He's given us love. He's given us everything we've ever wanted. He's been our father figure. He's the only thing we know to be a father”. You said that, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you meant it when you said it, didn't you.
Davellin Arvizo: At that point, I still liked Mr. Jackson. And that was the point that David had left and -- I don't know, I was just latching onto something, because I don't know what a description of a father is. I had 16 years of just abuse. I don't know what it is. I just latched onto something.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you want to take a minute.
Davellin Arvizo: I'm fine.
The Court: I think it's time for the morning break now.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Arvizo, in the Brad Miller tape-recording that we just heard --
The Bailiff: Would you turn your microphone on, please.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh, excuse me. Let me start again.
Mr. Mesereau: Ms. Arvizo, in the Brad Miller tape-recording that we just heard, your mother talks about the family being inundated with British, local newspapers, national newspapers, magazines, T.V. shows, Celebrity Justice, et cetera. Do you remember that.
Davellin Arvizo: What's the word “inundated”. What does that mean.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Davellin Arvizo: What does “inundated” mean.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry. I should have chose a better word. Your mother says that different kinds of media have attempted to contact her; do you recall that.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall her being contacted by Celebrity Justice.
Davellin Arvizo: The only one --
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember that.
Davellin Arvizo: The only one I remember is the one coming to the apartment.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: That's all I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. She says, “The children's old school and the children's new school are being contacted by media”. Did you know anything about that.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And if the school told that to your mother, you weren't involved, right.
Davellin Arvizo: All I remember is that one coming to the apartment. I don't remember any others.
Mr. Mesereau: So she uses words, “It's been swarmed”. But you don't know anything more than what you just testified to, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, your mother says, “We've been rejected, neglected, spit on, fried, tried, burned, abused, the doors shut in our face, opportunities lost. And Michael said -- took us from way behind in the line and pulled us up to the front and said, 'You matter to me. You may not matter to many people, but you matter to me and that's what's important'”. Do you know what she was referring to when she talked about your family being rejected, neglected, spit on, fried, et cetera.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. I guess emotions from David. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You were present with your mom when she reported David to the Los Angeles Police Department, right.
Davellin Arvizo: Which time.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, there was October -- excuse me, October 1st, 2001, do you remember that.
Davellin Arvizo: The one that I asked her to call the police, I was present for that one. But the one that -- the first one, I don't -- I wasn't there.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you present when your mother told the Los Angeles Police Department that Michael Jackson, Fritz Coleman and Kobe Bryant would assist her with this incident.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you present with her on October 4th, 2001, when she called the Los Angeles Police Department about your father.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know the dates, but I was only present after I told her what had happened with me and my father. Then she called the police. The other one -- any other incident I was not present.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you present when she told the police officer from Los Angeles that she wanted to show him a videotape and numerous photos of she and her children spending time with various celebrities.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall your mother said on the Brad Miller interview that Michael Jackson prayed with the family.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, I heard it.
Mr. Mesereau: That happened one time in the theater, didn't it.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't remember that.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember the family praying with Michael Jackson.
Davellin Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you think maybe your mother and Michael and the brothers did it without you.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that possible.
Davellin Arvizo: My mom prays like every couple of seconds, like little prayers, so --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you discussed the Bashir tape with Attorney Larry Feldman, didn't you.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember what we discussed.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, didn't your family approach him and talk about the Bashir tape.
Davellin Arvizo: All I remember -- we had a meeting that day. I don't remember. It was too long ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever drink alcohol on a plane where Michael Jackson was present.
Davellin Arvizo: I didn't drink alcohol on a plane.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you. Do you recall meeting with a psychologist named Stan Katz.
Davellin Arvizo: I remember meeting Mr. Katz.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were referred to him by Attorney Larry Feldman, right.
Davellin Arvizo: All I know is we went that day.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, Mr. Katz has a business relationship with Attorney Larry Feldman, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. One final question: Have you told the truth throughout your testimony.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
The Court: Mr. Sneddon.
Mr. Sneddon: Be right there, Your Honor. Just wanted to make arrangements to have the next witness brought down, Your Honor.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Miss Arvizo, first of all, I'd like to direct your attention to the time that you were in the car with Vinnie and your brother outside The Laugh Factory. Okay.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: At some point in time you were given a message by Vinnie and sent inside, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What was the message that he gave you to give to your mother.
Davellin Arvizo: To tell my mom to hurry up, because we needed to go.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that what you did.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes, I went and got her. Or I went and told her. She came out after me.
Mr. Sneddon: After you gave the message, did you stick around at all.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I went.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you told the jury that there was this incident which led to your request to have your mother call the police --
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- involving you and your father.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What happened.
Davellin Arvizo: It was before school. I was walking to McDonald's to go get something to eat. And my father was parked in the parking lot at McDonald's across from my high school, and he started waving at me, and to -- going like this, to “come here”. And I just kept trying to go and I didn't want to, but I was too scared of him. And I walked over, and he told me to get in the car.
Mr. Sneddon: So did you do that.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What happened when you got in the car.
Davellin Arvizo: He locked the doors, and then he was just telling me, “What are you guys doing”. And he just started being mean to me. And I just, “Yes, Daddy. Yes, Daddy. I'm sorry, I'm sorry”.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you try to leave. Did you tell him you wanted to leave.
Davellin Arvizo: I told him I had to leave. It was already, like, during my first period. I had to leave. And he just wouldn't let me go. He said, “No, I need to talk to you”, and he would grab my arm, and I didn't know -- I was just really scared. I didn't -- I didn't know what to do.
Mr. Sneddon: It's okay. It's okay. During the time that you were in the car with your father and he wouldn't let you go, did he ever molest you at that time.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you've heard Mr. Mesereau use the word “terrorist threats”. Do you remember him saying that.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever use those words to the police officer.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you even know what that means.
Davellin Arvizo: All I know is the word “threats”, so I'm just putting two and two together, like threatening threats. I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: But you never used the word “terrorist”.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury there was a time when you attempted to talk to Carol LaMere about your father's abusive behavior towards the family.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember that.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you indicated, I believe, that she didn't want to listen to it.
Davellin Arvizo: She didn't want to listen to it. She always seemed like she had kind of a -- I don't know, a crush on my father, because my father would go cook for her and stuff.
Mr. Sneddon: I just have a couple more questions. Before your family went to Miami to be with the defendant in this case, Mr. Jackson - okay. - before that time, your brother Gavin had already been in remission.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: For some time.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you ever hear your mother express her belief as to who was responsible for that remission.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who.
Davellin Arvizo: God. And only God.
Mr. Sneddon: You never heard her mention Michael Jackson.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to the -- going back to the incident with your father in the car, okay.
Davellin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: The one at school. I just -- my colleagues want me to ask you a question, so I'll do it.
Davellin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: You said that you didn't know the word “terrorist”, but you knew the word “threats”.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you -- in your conversations with police officers in describing what happened, did you use the word “threats”.
Davellin Arvizo: No, I just told them what he had told me.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did he tell you.
Davellin Arvizo: That we better not say anything about what happened, because he could have us killed.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know what the term “false imprisonment” means.
Davellin Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you describe to the police officers what happened.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what words did you use to describe what happened with regard to your ability to leave the car.
Davellin Arvizo: I told him he locked it, and that anytime I really tried to leave, he would grab my arm and tell me “No”.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, lastly, with regard to the questions that you were asked by Mr. Mesereau, and you were candid with the jury and told them that there were statements that you made to the social workers which were not true, do you recall that.
Davellin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
Mr. Sneddon: Foundational, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled. You may -- go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to those particular questions that you answered to Mr. Mesereau that you had lied, why did you lie.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't know. I just -- I kind of still liked Mr. Jackson, and I didn't want him to get in trouble. And I know I was scared because the bodyguard was there before. And just mixed feelings. I didn't know, really. I was just....
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I have nothing further, Your Honor. Thank you.
The Court: Mr. Mesereau.
Mr. Mesereau: Just briefly.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Ms. Arvizo, when the three social workers came to Jay Jackson's house and interviewed you, they were asking you questions about your mother, correct.
Davellin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: They were investigating whether your mother was fit, true.
Davellin Arvizo: I really don't remember what they were investigating. I didn't know what they were investigating.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, it wasn't really just Mr. Jackson that they were asking questions about, right.
Davellin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. No further questions, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Nothing further, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down.
Mr. Sneddon: May I have just a moment, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: She's subject to re-call, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes, I didn't excuse her.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh. Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: Call Star Arvizo.
The Court: He called him.
Bailiff Cortez: Oh, he did.
The Bailiff: You need to adjust this to your height.
The Court: Remain standing, please. Face the clerk and raise your right hand.
Message: STAR DAVID ARVIZO Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Star Arvizo: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Star Arvizo: My name is Star David Arvizo.
The Bailiff: Talk into the mike.
Star Arvizo: Oh, S-t-a-r, D-a-v-i-d, A-r-v-i-z-o.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: How old are you.
Star Arvizo: 14 years old.
Mr. Sneddon: You nervous.
Star Arvizo: A little bit.
Mr. Sneddon: What's your birth date.
Star Arvizo: 12-11-90. December 11th.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Star Arvizo: December 11th.
Mr. Sneddon: And what year in school are you right now.
Star Arvizo: Right now, in ninth grade.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you have brothers and sisters.
Star Arvizo: Two -- oh, three, actually.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Why don't you tell us their names.
Star Arvizo: Jett Daniel Jackson. Davellin Arvizo. And Gavin Anton Jackson, or Arvizo. God.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And your mother's name.
Star Arvizo: Janet Jackson.
Mr. Sneddon: And the current husband of your mother.
Star Arvizo: Jay Daniel Jackson.
Mr. Sneddon: And Mr. Jackson's occupation.
Star Arvizo: Major -- he's a United States Major in the Army right now.
Mr. Sneddon: And your grandparents, do you have grandparents that are still alive --
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- on your mother's side of the family.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What are your grandparents' names.
Star Arvizo: Maria Ventura and Jesus David Ventura.
Mr. Sneddon: And your grandfather, what does he go by.
Star Arvizo: He goes by David Ventura.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know where they live.
Star Arvizo: They live in El Monte.
Mr. Sneddon: And how long have they lived in El Monte.
Star Arvizo: 34 years.
Mr. Sneddon: Long time.
Star Arvizo: A long time, yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's talk a little bit about your school career.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did you start.
Star Arvizo: Start --
Mr. Sneddon: What's the name of the school.
Star Arvizo: In Maxson Elementary.
Mr. Sneddon: How is that spelled.
Star Arvizo: M-a-x-s-o-n.
Mr. Sneddon: And how long were you there.
Star Arvizo: Four years.
Mr. Sneddon: What grades would that have been, then.
Star Arvizo: Kindergarten through third.
Mr. Sneddon: And then for the fourth grade, where did you go.
Star Arvizo: Nueva Vista Elementary.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall what town that was in.
Star Arvizo: The City of Bell.
Mr. Sneddon: How about Maxson. Where was Maxson, what city.
Star Arvizo: It was located in El Monte.
Mr. Sneddon: And then how long were you at Nueva Vista.
Star Arvizo: Four through five.
Mr. Sneddon: And then in the sixth grade, where did you go.
Star Arvizo: I went through -- I mean, I went to LeConte Middle School.
The Reporter: LeConte.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you spell that.
Star Arvizo: C-o-n-t-e.
Mr. Sneddon: And it would be L-a.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Or LeConte.
Star Arvizo: Oh, LeConte. L-e-C-o-n-t-e.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was that school located.
Star Arvizo: It was located in Hollywood.
Mr. Sneddon: And where were you living at this point in your life.
Star Arvizo: In East L.A.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember the name of the street.
Star Arvizo: Soto. Soto near Cesar Chavez, I think.
Mr. Sneddon: So how did you get from your Soto Street address in East L.A. to Hollywood to go to school each day.
Star Arvizo: There was a school bus that picks us up on Cesar Chavez and takes us all the way to our middle school and then continued on to Hollywood High.
Mr. Sneddon: How many years did you go there.
Star Arvizo: To LeConte.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes.
Star Arvizo: One year.
Mr. Sneddon: And after that, where did you go to school.
Star Arvizo: To another -- well, in seventh grade, we went to middle school that was near our Soto address. And -- for about three weeks. And then my mom decided to put us in a better school, in John Burroughs Middle School.
Mr. Sneddon: So what was the name of the first school.
Star Arvizo: Hollenbeck Middle School.
Mr. Sneddon: And then you went to John Burroughs.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there a point in time -- where did you go to the eighth grade.
Star Arvizo: I went to -- I went to John Burroughs for seventh grade, through eighth. But then half of my eighth grade, I continued on with independent studies. Well, not after. A little bit towards the end.
Mr. Sneddon: What does “independent studies” mean.
Star Arvizo: It's where you stay at home, and you get your homework and everything. You go to a teacher once a week, and he gives you your homework, and you go home and do it.
Mr. Sneddon: So you don't really go to school.
Star Arvizo: No. No.
Mr. Sneddon: But this year you're in a regular school, a freshman.
Star Arvizo: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: You've told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury that you lived on Soto Street in East Los Angeles. Do you recall how long it was that you remember living at Soto Street.
Star Arvizo: Probably about four years. I don't remember if it's exact, but --
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember where you lived when you were in kindergarten.
Star Arvizo: Well, actually, my parents and my brother and my mom, they lived there for a year, because I was living in my grandmother's house, and I continued going to Maxson Elementary.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Star Arvizo: So it was probably -- yeah, it was probably about four years. I don't know. Probably four years. Guessing.
Mr. Sneddon: Describe to the ladies and gentlemen of the jury this Soto Street address, as you recall it.
Star Arvizo: The address.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah. No, what was inside. What is the room like.
Star Arvizo: It was really small. Probably -- it was a bachelor apartment. It was really small.
Mr. Sneddon: Did it have a separate bedroom.
Star Arvizo: Well, it was like a living room/bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Star Arvizo: It was like a kitchen, like an area, and then a little bathroom.
Mr. Sneddon: So where did people sleep.
Star Arvizo: Big area.
Mr. Sneddon: All together.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: The whole family.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: How would you describe the -- just let us -- what was it like, the relationship between your mother and your father during these times.
Star Arvizo: It wasn't good.
Mr. Sneddon: What do you mean by that.
Star Arvizo: Well, they'd always get in arguments, and it would always lead to my father hitting my mom.
Mr. Sneddon: Did he ever hit you.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever see him hit your brother and sister.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there a point in time when your dad left.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember when that was in terms of what grade you were in.
Star Arvizo: I was in sixth grade, and it was in the morning.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember the incident.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you in school that day.
Star Arvizo: It was a weekend.
Mr. Sneddon: And when your father left, did he ever come back.
Star Arvizo: No, I never saw him again.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Let me talk to you a little bit about some of the things that you've done. Have you ever been to a place called The Laugh Factory.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall what the first occasion was when you went to The Laugh Factory.
Star Arvizo: It was for a comedy camp.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember approximately when that was.
Star Arvizo: The year.
Mr. Sneddon: Or just put it -- the year, if you can remember, or between what grades it was.
Star Arvizo: It was between third and fourth, probably. Because it was right before my brother was -- had cancer.
Mr. Sneddon: And was this during the school year or at some other time.
Star Arvizo: It was during the summer.
Mr. Sneddon: And who went to the camp.
Star Arvizo: Me and my brother and my sister.
Mr. Sneddon: And how long did it last.
Star Arvizo: I don't remember how exact, but it lasted for probably about a month.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you meet any people at the camp that you ended up having -- becoming friends of the family.
Star Arvizo: George Lopez. Louise.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know Louise's last name.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Star Arvizo: Jamie Masada. Can't remember right now.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, let me show you some photographs, if I can. All right.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, you might have to turn on the screen eventually. I just thought I'd give you a heads up.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me. Have I seen those.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, they're in evidence, all three of them. I'll identify them for the record. But if you want to look at them again -- I'm sorry. I should have showed you now.
Mr. Sneddon: Just look at those for a second. I've shown you an exhibit that's in evidence marked as People's 28, People's 13, and People's 49 that are in evidence. Okay. Just hold those there for a second. All right. Go ahead and put 28 up there. I want you to look at People's 28, Star. Okay. Do you have that in front of you.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize the person in that photograph.
Star Arvizo: Yes. It's Jamie Masada.
Mr. Auchincloss: Your Honor, do you have it on “Input 3”.
The Court: We have “1” or “4”.
Mr. Auchincloss: Oh, “Input 1”.
The Court: It was on “1”. The PC.
Mr. Sneddon: “No signal”.
The Bailiff: Did you push the other thing.
Mr. Sneddon: There we go.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, People's 28 you identified as whom, Star.
Star Arvizo: Jamie Masada.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, if you put that aside for just a second and go to the one that's marked as People's 13.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize the people depicted in that photograph.
Star Arvizo: That's my sister, me, my brother, and Fritz Coleman.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. You recognize the person named Fritz Coleman.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did you meet him.
Star Arvizo: At The Laugh Factory.
Mr. Sneddon: And what was he doing there.
Star Arvizo: He was helping out the kids with their comedy act.
Mr. Sneddon: And the people in that photograph, do you recognize those people.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: A little different than what you look like now, huh.
Star Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Put that aside, if you would. And let's look at the one that's 49 that's in evidence, people's 49, okay. Do you recognize the people in that photograph.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who are those.
Star Arvizo: It's me, my brother, my sister, and Louise.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Do you know Louise's last name.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you guys have a nickname for her.
Star Arvizo: Yeah, we called her Weezie.
Mr. Sneddon: Weezie.
Star Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: (To the reporter) I'm sorry, you're on your own in trying to spell it.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And do you recall when this photograph was taken.
Star Arvizo: Oh. Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: When was it taken.
Star Arvizo: It was during the comedy camp.
Mr. Sneddon: During the summer you went to comedy camp.
Star Arvizo: Yeah. Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Thank you. Your Honor, we can turn the lights back on. Thanks. Okay. Just take those and turn them over and set them up there on the counter, if you would. Thanks. Now, at some point in time, did your brother Gavin -- did you learn that your brother Gavin had come down with cancer.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember in terms of what year you were in school, or what was going on at that particular time in your life that you remember that happening.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Tell the jury.
Star Arvizo: I was in fourth grade. My brother was -- well, he was moved up to fifth grade. So -- and then he was diagnosed with cancer, so he had to leave school. And I continued on going to school through the fifth grade. And then he went into remission during sixth grade, when he was able to come back with me during sixth grade.
Mr. Sneddon: So you were in the same grades then.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, do you remember in terms of about what time of the school year it was that Gavin learned that he had cancer.
Star Arvizo: The year.
Mr. Sneddon: What time of the school year. Like beginning, end, middle.
Star Arvizo: Probably middle. Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall.
Star Arvizo: Huh. No, I don't recall. I don't know exactly.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell us in terms of your -- at the time that Gavin learned that he had cancer, where was he living at that time.
Star Arvizo: We were still living in East L.A.
Mr. Sneddon: And the name of the street.
Star Arvizo: Soto.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And then when Gavin -- did Gavin at some point begin to go to the hospital.
Star Arvizo: What.
Mr. Sneddon: Did -- did Gavin ever have to go to the hospital.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Because of the cancer.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where was he living then.
Star Arvizo: Oh, he -- Louise gave my dad money so he could fix, at my grandma's house, a room for him.
Mr. Sneddon: So he was at your grandma's house.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And in what town was that.
Star Arvizo: El Monte.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Were there times that he was in the hospital.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you present at any times when the defendant in this case, Michael Jackson, called your brother.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: On how many occasions.
Star Arvizo: Twice.
Mr. Sneddon: Where.
Star Arvizo: Well, two times that I know of, and -- in the hospital room, and a couple times at my grandma's house in El Monte.
Mr. Sneddon: So they were separate locations.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at some point when your brother had been diagnosed with cancer, were you -- did you and your family go to Neverland Ranch.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall when it was the first time that you went, like what time of the year it was.
Star Arvizo: Time of the year. What year it was.
Mr. Sneddon: What time of the year. Were you in school. Was it the summer.
Star Arvizo: I think we were during school.
Mr. Sneddon: Was it the beginning of school or end of school; do you remember.
Star Arvizo: Middle of school.
Mr. Sneddon: How old were you at this point.
Star Arvizo: Ten or 11. I was 11. I don't remember.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Star Arvizo: I don't really remember how old I was.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember what year it was that you went.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Was it during the time that your brother had cancer.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. So what year was it your brother got cancer.
Star Arvizo: 2000, 2001.
Mr. Sneddon: So how old were you in 2000.
Star Arvizo: 12. Or 11. Oh, I was probably 11. It was right before my birthday.
Mr. Sneddon: I couldn't hear what you said.
Star Arvizo: It was before my birthday.
Mr. Sneddon: So it was before your birthday that year.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who went to the ranch the first time.
Star Arvizo: My mom, my dad, me, my brother and my sister.
Mr. Sneddon: How did you get there.
Star Arvizo: Limousine.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember about what time it was when you arrived at the ranch.
Star Arvizo: Daytime.
Mr. Sneddon: What happened when you got there.
Star Arvizo: Got there; they had -- my mom and my dad signed papers, and then we went into the ranch and there's cooks and, like, maids, people standing outside the door.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. You need to talk into that microphone so people can hear you. Okay.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Standing outside the door where. What door.
Star Arvizo: The front door.
Mr. Sneddon: To what.
Star Arvizo: To the main house.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. After you -- after you got there, you were greeted by these folks. What happened next. What was the next thing you recall happening.
Star Arvizo: I remember just me and my brother and my dad were in the kitchen -- well, yeah, in the kitchen. Or near the kitchen. We weren't inside the kitchen.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. What were you doing in there.
Star Arvizo: We were waiting for Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: And did Mr. Jackson come down at some point.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall when that was.
Star Arvizo: Uhh --
Mr. Sneddon: How long had you been there before Mr. Jackson came down.
Star Arvizo: 30 minutes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember -- do you remember seeing Mr. Jackson on that occasion.
Star Arvizo: After.
Mr. Sneddon: No, when he came down. The first time you ever met him. Was that the first time.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what was he dressed like.
Star Arvizo: He had a red shirt on with black pants, and tape over his nose.
Mr. Sneddon: And what.
Star Arvizo: And tape over his nose.
Mr. Sneddon: After this greeting, where did you guys go. What did you do. Did you talk to Mr. Jackson for a while.
Star Arvizo: He said we were going to drive some cars.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you do that.
Star Arvizo: Yes. We drove some golf carts.
Mr. Sneddon: And you say “we”. Who is “we”.
Star Arvizo: My brother and me.
Mr. Sneddon: And who else.
Star Arvizo: Michael and Frank.
Mr. Sneddon: Frank who.
Star Arvizo: Tyson.
Mr. Sneddon: Had you ever met Mr. Tyson prior to that time.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: So the four of you went somewhere on the ranch; is that correct.
Star Arvizo: We went around the ranch.
Mr. Sneddon: And what are these carts like that you drove.
Star Arvizo: They're like golf carts.
Mr. Sneddon: And how many carts were being driven by the four of you. Four carts.
Star Arvizo: No, it was two carts.
Mr. Sneddon: Two carts.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who was in the carts, the two carts.
Star Arvizo: Me and Michael were in one car, and my brother and Frank were in another car.
Mr. Sneddon: So where did you go.
Star Arvizo: We went around the ranch.
Mr. Sneddon: In the carts.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: How long were you out there.
Star Arvizo: 20 minutes. Ten minutes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you came back, do you recall what happened, what you did after that; after you came back from driving around with Mr. Jackson and Mr. Tyson and your brother.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did you sleep that night.
Star Arvizo: In the guest units.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall where your mother and father slept that night.
Star Arvizo: I think my sister and my mom slept together. And my dad, me and my brother slept in another room.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember how long you stayed there on that first visit.
Star Arvizo: I think it was two days.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, do you remember an incident occurring between your mother and your father on this particular visit.
Star Arvizo: Yeah, it was the next day.
Mr. Sneddon: The next what.
Star Arvizo: It was the next day. Me and my brother were trying to get up so we could go outside, and my dad wouldn't let us go outside because he wanted to sleep in. And so eventually, like about 12 o'clock, we went outside and we got breakfast. And my brother was like messing around on the ranch somewhere. And I came back and went into my mom's unit, and my dad was sitting down in the chair. And he was yelling at my mom, and she was trying to put on her makeup. And he -- he got up and he grabbed the club soda that was on the dresser and threw it at my mom's face.
Mr. Sneddon: What did you do.
Star Arvizo: Tried to comfort her. I walked over and I hugged her, and I said “I love you” to her. She told me to go out and play.
Mr. Sneddon: She did what.
Star Arvizo: She told me to go outside and play.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you do that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What did you do.
Star Arvizo: I don't know. I just probably went outside and drove a golf cart.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall the first time that you went to Mr. Jackson's bedroom.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: When was that.
Star Arvizo: That was probably the second visit.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall about what time it was when you went to his bedroom.
Star Arvizo: Nighttime.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell us how you -- how you got into the bedroom. Tell us the way it is that you get into Mr. Jackson's bedroom.
Star Arvizo: First you walk through a hallway, and then you come through a door, and then you continue walking. You go through another door and you walk up the stairs.
Mr. Sneddon: Are there any kinds of alarms or bells or anything that goes off.
Star Arvizo: Yes. There's like a bell that goes off, and -- while you're walking through the hallway. And then there's a key pad to the first door.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Did you at some point in time learn the code to that key pad.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And how did you acquire that information. In other words, who gave it to you.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; assumes facts not in evidence. Move to strike.
The Court: Sustained. You have a compound question.
Mr. Sneddon: At some point in time you had obtained the code to that key pad.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who gave you the codes.
Star Arvizo: Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Were there more than one code.
Star Arvizo: Yes. There was the door code and the master code to all the doors.
Mr. Sneddon: And which one did Mr. Jackson give you.
Star Arvizo: The 1960 one.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Star Arvizo: The -- it was the one code that could get into his bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember the numbers.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What were they.
Star Arvizo: 1960.
Mr. Sneddon: And those are the ones Mr. Jackson gave you.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now. Were there another set of numbers.
Star Arvizo: Yes, it was another code that was 1849 that got you in every door.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you get that code from.
Star Arvizo: I got it from the security guard.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember the security guard's name.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember what he looks like.
Star Arvizo: He was -- he was white, but I don't exactly remember his face.
Mr. Sneddon: I couldn't hear what you said.
Star Arvizo: I don't remember his face.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And do you remember when it was that you got that code from the security -- let me ask it this way: At some point in time you went to Miami, correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And then after Miami, you came back to the ranch.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to the code number that Mr. Jackson gave you - all right. --
Star Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: -- when did you get that code number from him. Before or after you went to Miami.
Star Arvizo: After.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to the code number that you got from the security guard, was it before or after you went to Miami.
Star Arvizo: After.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Star Arvizo: After.
Mr. Sneddon: So on the first occasion that you went to Mr. Jackson's room, you did not have a code number.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Who all went to the room when you went to the room.
Star Arvizo: First occasion.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes.
Star Arvizo: Frank, Michael, me and my brother.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you go in the room.
Star Arvizo: First we sat down and talked, and then we went on a kitchen raid.
Mr. Sneddon: You say you sat down and talked. Where did you sit down and talk.
Star Arvizo: In the living room. Well, where the -- downstairs.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Downstairs in the house.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where in the house.
Star Arvizo: In his bedroom area downstairs.
Mr. Sneddon: So you were in there talking.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who was present.
Star Arvizo: Frank, Michael, me and my brother.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall how long you were there before you went to somewhere else.
Star Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Sneddon: So you told the jury you went somewhere else. Where did you go, and what was the purpose for going there.
Star Arvizo: We went to -- on a kitchen raid.
Mr. Sneddon: What do you mean by “a kitchen raid”.
Star Arvizo: We went to go get some food.
Mr. Sneddon: And whose idea was that.
Star Arvizo: Michael's.
Mr. Sneddon: And what was it you were going to get.
Star Arvizo: Food. And my brother suggested that he wanted some s'mores.
Mr. Sneddon: Some s'mores.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What happened when you went to the kitchen. What did you do.
Star Arvizo: We got some food.
Mr. Sneddon: Who actually went to the kitchen.
Star Arvizo: Me, Frank, Michael, and my brother.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Tell us what happened in the kitchen.
Star Arvizo: My brother wanted to make s'mores, so Michael called the security guard and got some Hershey chocolates and then we all went back to the bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: By the way, you've said “Michael” this, and “Michael” that. Do you recognize the defendant in this case.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: That's the “Michael” you're talking about.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. You're back in the bedroom. Who's back in the bedroom now, and where are you in the bedroom.
Star Arvizo: Right now we're still downstairs. Me and my brother are starting to make the s'mores. And then Michael says that he's going to go to sleep.
Mr. Sneddon: So does he then leave you.
Star Arvizo: Yes. But then we didn't want to make them anymore, so we just went upstairs then.
Mr. Sneddon: So you're in the downstairs area of his bedroom, and you said -- where did you go then.
Star Arvizo: We went upstairs.
Mr. Sneddon: How do you get there.
Star Arvizo: You go in through a door, and then you go upstairs.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you went into the bedroom area, who all was there.
Star Arvizo: Frank, Michael, me and my brother.
Mr. Sneddon: Anybody else.
Star Arvizo: Oh, Prince and Paris were there also.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when did Prince and Paris come into the picture.
Star Arvizo: They were also there. They were also with us on the kitchen raid, when we went to go get food.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you got upstairs and you're in the room, what happened then.
Star Arvizo: They were asleep on the bed, and Frank had a computer. It was a computer that Michael gave him the first time.
Mr. Sneddon: Gave who.
Star Arvizo: Gave Gavin.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Star Arvizo: And this time it already had Internet access, so Frank did something and the Internet was on, and we started going on sites.
Mr. Sneddon: Going on sites.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What kind of sides.
Star Arvizo: Pornography sites.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was Mr. Jackson during this time.
Star Arvizo: He was sitting right next to us.
Mr. Sneddon: Where were you seated.
Star Arvizo: On the bed.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was Mr. Tyson.
Star Arvizo: Typing.
Mr. Sneddon: Typing. Where was he located in the room.
Star Arvizo: Right off the bed and kneeled against the bed and --
Mr. Sneddon: Could you see the screen.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
The Bailiff: You can pull it down a little.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, do you recall whose idea it was to go on the Internet.
Star Arvizo: Michael's.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall what he said.
Star Arvizo: No. But while we were on one of those sites, a lady had her shirt up, and Michael said, “Got milk”.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember that.
Star Arvizo: Yeah. And then he leaned over to Prince and says, “You're missing some p-u-s-s-y”, but he said it, in his ear, but Prince was still asleep.
Mr. Sneddon: How many sites do you feel that you went to that night.
Star Arvizo: I don't really remember, but probably, say, five or six.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did the sites have. You don't need to go into all the details, but generally what was the common denominator.
Star Arvizo: Females.
Mr. Sneddon: Huh.
Star Arvizo: Females.
Mr. Sneddon: And can you tell us whether or not they had clothes on.
Star Arvizo: They didn't have clothes on.
Mr. Sneddon: Females only.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did you sleep that night.
Star Arvizo: Michael's bed.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did your brother sleep that night.
Star Arvizo: Right next to me.
Mr. Sneddon: And Mr. Jackson, where did Mr. Jackson sleep.
Star Arvizo: He slept on the foot of the bed on the floor.
Mr. Sneddon: And Mr. Tyson.
Star Arvizo: To the right of the bed on the floor.
Mr. Sneddon: And Prince and Paris, did they --
Star Arvizo: They -- I think they slept on the bed with us.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember what you did after -- let me ask you this: How long do you think you were watching these --
Star Arvizo: Sites.
Mr. Sneddon: -- sites that you went to.
Star Arvizo: 15, ten minutes. Ten minutes.
Mr. Sneddon: And then where -- what did you guys do.
Star Arvizo: We -- after all that, we started watching some Simpsons videos.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Then what.
Star Arvizo: And then Michael told us not to tell no one what we did.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Star Arvizo: He told us not to tell our parents what we did.
Mr. Sneddon: Who said that.
Star Arvizo: Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I have some more photographs I want to show you.
Star Arvizo: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Star, I'm going to ask you some -- no, you need it; I don't. I'm asking some questions about the photographs I put in front of you. And for the record, Your Honor, I've shown them to counsel for his examination. All right. The first one you have in front of you is marked as People's 188 for identification. Do you recognize what's depicted in that photograph.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that an accurate picture of what's in there, of what it shows.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Just turn it over. Set it right over there. That's it. Good. Now, the next one is, I'm sorry, 50, People's 50 for identification. Do you recognize that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that an accurate representation of what it depicts.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Turn it over. I'm going to ask you some questions about these, but I just want to lay the foundation first. All right. With regard to 52 for identification, do you recognize that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that an accurate depiction of what it represents.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Turn that over, if you would. And we'll move on to the next one, which is People's 53. Do you recognize that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that an accurate depiction of what it represents.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Flip it over, if you would. And People's 54, do you recognize that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that an accurate depiction of what it represents, or purports to represent.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, the next photograph is one that is actually in evidence, and so you can just turn that over. I'll ask you questions about that later. And the next one is 196 for identification purposes. Do you recognize the people in that photograph.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that an accurate depiction of what those people looked like at the time that it was taken.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Turn that over. And the next photograph is 110. And is that an accurate depiction of what it represents.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to 111, is that an accurate depiction.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you. Your Honor, I'd move that those photographs be admitted into evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: They're admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, Gavin, just -- Star, just flip those over and I'm going to ask you some questions about those photographs, if we can. Okay.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: You can flip them back over so you're looking at them, so they're in the same order. Could I have just a second, Your Honor. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Sneddon: Now, the first photograph that you have is a photograph that's on the board. Ron, could you give me that, please. The black case. Thank you. It's on the board. Do you recognize the photograph that's in evidence as People's 188.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Would you tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury what that is.
Star Arvizo: That's the front view of the main house.
Mr. Sneddon: “Of the main house”. Of whose house.
Star Arvizo: Michael's house. It's the front door.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, do you want to turn that over. And we'll pick up the next photograph, which is the one that's marked as People's 50.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you have People's 50 there.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize the photograph that's depicted on the board behind you. Take a look at it, and make sure they're the same.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: They are. Okay. And what is that. Tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury what that is.
Star Arvizo: That's the hallway leading to Michael's bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, this particular door that leads to the hallway, does that door have a key pad on it.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Is there another way in to Mr. Jackson's hallway that leads to his bedroom, other than this door.
Star Arvizo: Through the library.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you see the door in this photograph that you can use to get into that hallway from the library.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I'm going to give you this marker. Now, would you show the ladies and gentlemen of the jury on the photograph behind you where that other door is that you can access that hallway. So you're talking about the one that's just above the duck.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And about in the middle of the photograph.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Put that down. Now, with regard to getting into the hallway from the library, do you need a code of any kind to get in from there.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, let's go to the next photograph, which is People's 52 in evidence. Do you recognize that photograph.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury what 52 is.
Star Arvizo: It's the hallway leading to Michael's bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: And can you use the little -- yeah, the black thing. I know there's a name for those things, it just escapes me.
Star Arvizo: A laser.
Mr. Sneddon: What.
Star Arvizo: It's a laser.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you use the laser pencil for us and show us the view where Mr. Jackson's -- the entrance to his bedroom. So straight in the middle of the photograph towards the rear.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, let's turn to the next photograph, which is 53; is that correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, what's 53.
Star Arvizo: It's just a closer view of Michael's -- oh, it's just a view of the doors.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, on this particular photograph, would you use the laser for us again, please, and tell us where the key pad is.
Star Arvizo: Right there. It's behind all this stuff.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Lean in -- turn around and lean into the microphone.
Star Arvizo: It's behind all this stuff.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. So you're indicating behind the machine that says “Wild Water”.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: It's behind there.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to the photograph that you have on the board right now, do you see that on the far right-hand side of the photograph.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize that thing that's depicted there.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What is that.
Star Arvizo: That's like detectors.
Mr. Sneddon: What.
Star Arvizo: Something like -- I don't know what they're called, but --
Mr. Sneddon: During the time that you were at -- staying at the ranch, did those -- did that -- did that work.
Star Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: Were there any other things that, while you were visiting the ranch, that, when you went to a certain point, gave off noise.
Star Arvizo: Oh, it was like a sensor. Like once you reached like the middle of the hallway, it was like -- it was like a ring.
Mr. Sneddon: What kind of a ring.
Star Arvizo: Like “ding”. I don't know. It was like a ring. It wasn't like a constant ring. It was like on and off for a little while.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: How long.
Star Arvizo: Five seconds.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's go to the last photograph, if we can.
Star Arvizo: Do you mean this one.
Mr. Sneddon: And what's that, 54.
Star Arvizo: 54, oh. That's the view entrance of Michael's bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, you can put that one down. And the next photograph I'm going to have you look at is People's 20 in evidence. Do you recognize that person.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who is that.
Star Arvizo: It's Frank Tyson.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you ever know Mr. Tyson by any other name than “Tyson”.
Star Arvizo: No. No.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Why don't you put that photograph down. Now, when you told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury that you were there on that first occasion that you went into Michael's bedroom, is this the person you were referring to.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's go to 196. Do you recognize that photograph.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize where it was taken.
Star Arvizo: It was in Neverland.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recognize the people in the photograph.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And who are the people in the photograph.
Star Arvizo: Michael, my brother and me. Michael, my brother and me.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry, I didn't hear the last part. Now, is that the way your brother looked back at that point in time.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Was that a wheelchair that you got at the ranch or was that one that your family had for Gavin.
Star Arvizo: That was at the ranch.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And then there are two last photographs. But before we go, do you recall approximately when it was that that photograph, People's 196, was taken.
Star Arvizo: What year.
Mr. Sneddon: If you can.
Star Arvizo: I don't know. It was the time between when he had cancer. When he had cancer.
Mr. Sneddon: It was obviously during one of your visits.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall whether it was the first visit or some visit after that.
Star Arvizo: It was some visit after that.
Mr. Sneddon: Why do you think that.
Star Arvizo: It wasn't the first visit.
Mr. Sneddon: I didn't hear you.
Star Arvizo: It wasn't the first visit.
Mr. Sneddon: And why do you know that.
Star Arvizo: Because we didn't do that the first visit.
Mr. Sneddon: So it's sometime after that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember how long after that.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's go to the photograph 110.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you see -- do you see the photograph 110.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. You've told us about riding around in some carts.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, tell us about this photograph.
Star Arvizo: That's Michael's Bentley. And that's -- the light blue car is Marie Nicole's car.
Mr. Sneddon: Which one are you referring to.
Star Arvizo: This one. This one.
Mr. Sneddon: How do you know it's Marie Nicole's car.
Star Arvizo: It had “Marie Nicole” on the hood.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. How many such cars like that did you see on the ranch. “Cars”. Carts.
Star Arvizo: Probably, like, ten of them.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's go to People's 111. Do you recognize that photograph.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell us about it.
Star Arvizo: That's the Spiderman cart, and that's Marie Nicole's car. And --
Mr. Sneddon: Where is the Spiderman's cart.
Star Arvizo: Right there.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
Star Arvizo: And that's the video library.
Mr. Sneddon: By that, do you mean -- you pointed to the roof up by a place where there's a window about the middle of the roof and to the far left of the photograph.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you've been in the video library.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: How many times do you think you've been in the video library.
Star Arvizo: A lot of times.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah. Why don't you go ahead and put those up there, and we'll turn the lights back on. After the time that you were at the ranch, and it was the night, the first -- the first night that you spent in Mr. Jackson's bedroom --
Star Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: -- okay. - did you go back to the ranch on other occasions during the time that Gavin had cancer.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And how many times do you think you went.
Star Arvizo: I don't know exact.
Mr. Sneddon: Did your mother ever go with you.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Who went.
Star Arvizo: Just my brother, me, and my dad. But sometimes it was just mostly my brother and my dad.
Mr. Sneddon: So there were times that you didn't even go, but just your father and Gavin went.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: What.
Star Arvizo: No. Wait.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Yeah, you -- I might have misunderstood you. It's my fault. So let's just go back. I asked you if there were times that your mother went with you and your father, other than the times you've told us about. Okay.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Were there any other times your mother went.
Star Arvizo: No. Except after the Miami trip. Then she came.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So up to the Miami trip.
Star Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, were there times that you went back with your father.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And who else went with you.
Star Arvizo: My brother.
Mr. Sneddon: Did your sister go.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, were there times that Gavin and your father would go, but you wouldn't go.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: The times that you went to the ranch after the time that you were in Michael Jackson's bedroom and spent the night - okay --.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- from those times that you went with your father, when you went, was Mr. Jackson there.
Star Arvizo: No. No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember the first time that you went back to the ranch after your dad left the family.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: When was that.
Star Arvizo: That was when we were heading to the ranch, just me, my brother and my sister by ourselves.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you go with somebody.
Star Arvizo: Me, my brother and my sister.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Anybody else.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever go to the ranch with Chris Tucker.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Why. What were the occasions.
Star Arvizo: I don't know. He just wanted to go to the ranch.
Mr. Sneddon: How many times did you go with him.
Star Arvizo: Four times.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Tell us about the first time. Or tell us about -- anything about those times stand out.
Star Arvizo: There's one time we went to go celebrate his son's birthday, and we just ended up staying there for about a week with Chris.
Mr. Sneddon: Mr. Tucker was there the whole time.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you stay during the times you were there with Mr. Tucker.
Star Arvizo: Guest units. And then the last night we stood in a teepee.
Mr. Sneddon: Was Mr. Jackson there on any of those occasions.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Who stayed in the teepee.
Star Arvizo: There was a lot of people. There was Chris, me, my brother, my sister. Wait. I don't think my sister was there. I don't know. But --
Mr. Sneddon: I couldn't hear what you said.
Star Arvizo: I don't know if my sister was there. She was probably there. But it was a female. There was a kid named Adrian. There was another person there also. I don't remember their names.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize the name Martin Bashir.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And how do you recognize it.
Star Arvizo: He was the person that did the taping of “Living with Michael Jackson”.
Mr. Sneddon: How do you know that.
Star Arvizo: Because we were introduced to him.
Mr. Sneddon: Where were you introduced to him.
Star Arvizo: At the ranch.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember about when that was.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Was it before or after the time that you'd gone to the ranch with Mr. Tucker and his children, or child.
Star Arvizo: It was after.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall, was it during the time that you were in school or was it during the summer.
Star Arvizo: School.
Mr. Sneddon: And who all went to the ranch on this time, on this occasion.
Star Arvizo: It was only me, my brother and my sister. We went up there by ourselves.
Mr. Sneddon: And how did you get there.
Star Arvizo: By limo.
Mr. Sneddon: And where were you picked up.
Star Arvizo: The -- the East L.A. apartment on Soto.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember what time of the day or night it was that you got there, in terms of was it daylight, was it dark, was it in the morning; do you recall.
Star Arvizo: It was probably in the morning. Somewhere around there.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Star Arvizo: It was probably in the morning.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, do you remember when you got there, what -- what you did. Where did you go when you got out of the limo.
Star Arvizo: We entered through the back of the main house, and Michael took my brother aside.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you say you entered through the back, the photograph that we saw just a few moments ago, the photograph 188 in evidence, the People's exhibit, does that show the entrance you went into.
Star Arvizo: No. That's the front entrance.
Mr. Sneddon: So if I were standing in the front of the house, if I were a juror in this case standing in the front of the house, where would I have to go to get into the entrance that you went into the day of the Bashir incident.
Star Arvizo: You would have to walk around the house to the left, and there's a door back there, if you walk around the house.
Mr. Sneddon: Lean into the mike, please.
Star Arvizo: You have to walk around the house to the left.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. When you walk in the door, what room are you in in the house.
Star Arvizo: Through the back exit.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, the one you came in.
Star Arvizo: You're looking at the -- the workers' lounge or something.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And then where -- where does that lead to.
Star Arvizo: It leads to the kitchen, to the dining area. To everywhere.
Mr. Sneddon: So where was it that you saw your brother Gavin go with Mr. Jackson.
Star Arvizo: He told us, me and my sister, to wait right there, and so we did. And he took my brother off to the dining area.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you lose sight of your brother.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, how long was your brother gone; do you recall. Just approximately.
Star Arvizo: 20 minutes. 20 minutes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when he came back, what happened.
Star Arvizo: They sat down and --
Mr. Sneddon: Who sat down.
Star Arvizo: Michael and my brother.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did they sit down.
Star Arvizo: On the couch that was near the kitchen.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you at any time ever introduced to Mr. Bashir that day.
Star Arvizo: I think it was probably before the taping.
Mr. Sneddon: So -- you say “before the taping”. When did that occur.
Star Arvizo: What.
Mr. Sneddon: What was going on at the time that you were introduced by Mr. Bashir. Who introduced you.
Star Arvizo: Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you have an understanding -- did you personally have an understanding that you were going to appear on film that day.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you eventually appear on film that day.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what were you doing on film.
Star Arvizo: We were showing Michael one of our military cadences that we learned from a program, military program.
Mr. Sneddon: What military program.
Star Arvizo: At that time we were in the NLCC. Stood for Naval League Cadet Corps. That's what it -- it was a Navy program.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember when you joined that program.
Star Arvizo: I was 11.
Mr. Sneddon: Before the Bashir -- I mean in relation to the Bashir --
Star Arvizo: It was before.
Mr. Sneddon: Are you still in that program.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Are you in another program.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What's that.
Star Arvizo: It's Infantry Explorers.
Mr. Sneddon: And what service is that connected with.
Star Arvizo: Army.
Mr. Sneddon: And how long have you been in that program.
Star Arvizo: It's going on four months. We barely joined.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Star Arvizo: We barely joined four months ago.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you ever in a Navy program.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What was that.
Star Arvizo: That was the Naval Sea Cadets. It was an older program. It's for older kids. It's from 13 to 17.
Mr. Sneddon: And how long were you in that.
Star Arvizo: About a year.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at the time that you were there with the -- Mr. Jackson and your brother and your sister and Mr. Bashir, were you told before you got there why you were going to the ranch.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: You personally were never told.
Star Arvizo: No, I was never told.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, after the -- were you present during the time that your brother appeared with Mr. Jackson on that film.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you watch it.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you watch it get filmed.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: After the filming was done, they came back and filmed you folks in the kitchen there.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: With Mr. Jackson.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: After that was done, did you see where Mr. Jackson went.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see him any more during the visit.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Mr. Jackson at any time tell you where he was going.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you -- did you stay at the ranch, or did you leave.
Star Arvizo: We stood.
Mr. Sneddon: The night.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at some point in time, you've told us that you went to Miami.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, between the time that you had gone to the ranch and been with Mr. Jackson and your brother Gavin when they -- the Martin Bashir filming took place - okay --.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- between that time and the time you left for Miami, did you personally have any contact with Mr. Jackson.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you go to the ranch on any occasions between those two periods of time, the time of the Bashir filming and the time you left for Miami.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: To your knowledge, did anybody from your family go to the ranch during that period of time.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: To your knowledge, did anybody have any contact with Mr. Jackson during that period of time.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Without telling me what was said, when was it that you first learned -- from whom did you first learn you were going to Miami.
Star Arvizo: My brother.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you present during a time where a telephone call occurred between your brother and Mr. Jackson.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where were you and your brother at that point in time.
Star Arvizo: We were barely waking up to go to school.
Mr. Sneddon: Very literal. All right. You're barely waking up. So what house -- what location were you at.
Star Arvizo: Oh. We were at the St. Andrews apartment.
Mr. Sneddon: Whose apartment is that.
Star Arvizo: It's Jay's apartment.
Mr. Sneddon: Major Jackson.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And was your mother there at that time.
Star Arvizo: Yes, she was.
Mr. Sneddon: And how about Mr. Jackson, was he -- I know that's his apartment. But at the time that your brother was on the phone, was Mr. Jackson there.
Star Arvizo: No, he was at work.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, were you present during the -- not a part of it, but were you present when your brother was on the phone.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did your mother participate in that conversation, as you recall.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: At the end of that conversation, were you told to do something.
Star Arvizo: Pack my bags.
Mr. Sneddon: Who told you that.
Star Arvizo: My brother.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you do that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: So you didn't go to school that day.
Star Arvizo: No. No.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you told how you were going to get to Miami.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: How.
Star Arvizo: We were going to go by a commercial airline.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you go to Miami by commercial airline.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: What form of transportation did you take to get to Miami.
Star Arvizo: We went with Chris Tucker on his private jet, or lear jet.
Mr. Sneddon: So how was it that you hooked up with Mr. Tucker that day to go on this flight to Miami.
Star Arvizo: What do you mean.
Mr. Sneddon: How did you get from your apartment at St. Andrews, or Mr. Jackson's.
Star Arvizo: Someone dropped us off there.
Mr. Sneddon: Dropped you off where.
Star Arvizo: At the airport, where we met. Wait. I don't remember. But I know that someone picked us up. Either drove us to his house or to the airport.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. You say “his house”. Who do you mean by “his house”.
Star Arvizo: Chris Tucker's house.
Mr. Sneddon: So you don't remember whether you went there or the airport, but that's where the plane was.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who was on the plane.
Star Arvizo: Me, my brother, my sister, my mom, and Chris. And there was another guy, but I don't remember his name.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, Chris Tucker --
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- had you known Mr. Tucker prior to this -- prior to going to Miami.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember how it was that you met Mr. Tucker.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell the jury how you met Mr. Tucker.
Star Arvizo: I met him through The Laugh Factory comedy -- it was after the comedy camp.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. After the comedy camp.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What was the -- how did you meet him. How did that come about.
Star Arvizo: He was there one day, and my brother wanted to go see the show. And so my brother met Chris Tucker.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you sort of become friends with Mr. Tucker.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you go places with Mr. Tucker.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where are some of the places you went with him.
Star Arvizo: Nickelodeon Kids Awards. And to his house. To Oakland to see a Raiders game. And other places. I don't --
Mr. Sneddon: Were you ever present during a situation where your brother met Kobe Bryant.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did that occur.
Star Arvizo: Oh, and Chris also took us to a Lakers game.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Let's talk about the first one. You were present on that -- at the time that happened.
Star Arvizo: I wasn't, no. I wasn't present when he went into the locker room.
Mr. Sneddon: You're talking about the Laker game now.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. What about the first time.
Star Arvizo: Oh, yeah, I was present. He was at The Laugh Factory.
Mr. Sneddon: And was Chris Tucker involved in that, too.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the second occasion was at a Laker game.
Star Arvizo: Yes. The first occasion was at the Laker game. The second occasion was at The Laugh Factory.
Mr. Sneddon: Oh, okay. Now, at the Laker game, was your brother -- other than going to the locker room, was there some other form of unusual thing that occurred that evening.
Star Arvizo: He was shown on the big screen, or shown on the big screen.
Mr. Sneddon: So your brother's picture was shown on the big screen.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: At the Laker game.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's talk a little bit about the trip to Miami. You're on the plane. Do you remember how long it took you to get there.
Star Arvizo: Five hours or so. Yeah, five hours.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you land.
Star Arvizo: At an airport.
Mr. Sneddon: Good answer. Stupid question, but good answer. When you got to the airport and the plane landed, where did you go from there and how did you get there.
Star Arvizo: We were going to the Turnberry Resort. And we -- we left by limousine.
Mr. Sneddon: And was it -- was it daytime or nighttime at the time, if you remember.
Star Arvizo: It was nighttime.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember about what time it was.
Star Arvizo: It was really late.
Mr. Sneddon: So when you got to the Turnberry, do you remember the first thing you did.
Star Arvizo: We went to Chris Tucker's room.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Star Arvizo: And then we went to our room.
Mr. Sneddon: When you say “we went to our room”, who went to the room that you call “our room”.
Star Arvizo: My mom, my brother and my sister and me.
Mr. Sneddon: So you were all in one room.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you got to your room after visiting with Mr. Tucker, what did you do.
Star Arvizo: We went to sleep.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. The next day when you woke up, do you remember about what time it was when you woke up.
Star Arvizo: It was really late. It was probably around 2:00.
Mr. Sneddon: In the afternoon.
Star Arvizo: Yes. In Florida.
Mr. Sneddon: So when you woke up, what did you do.
Star Arvizo: We -- we went to Chris's room, and then we went to Michael's room.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you say you went to Chris's room. When you went to Chris's room, did Chris go with you to Mr. Jackson's room --
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- or did he stay in his room.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: In relationship to your room, where was Mr. Jackson's room.
Star Arvizo: The floor above us.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember what floor you were on.
Star Arvizo: Fifth floor.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, do you remember what you saw when you got off the elevator on the floor where Mr. Jackson's room was.
Star Arvizo: There was security guards all over the floor.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And what did you do.
Star Arvizo: Went to his room.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you went in the room, who was in the room when you first got into the room.
Star Arvizo: It was Marie Nicole, Aldo, Michael and -- that's who we first saw.
Mr. Sneddon: During the time that you were there, did you get introduced to any other people that day.
Star Arvizo: Yeah, we were introduced to Dieter and Ronald.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you see Mr. Tyson at all that day.
Star Arvizo: Yeah, later that day.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember approximately when later that day.
Star Arvizo: Nighttime.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, during the time that you were in -- you come -- let's go back when you first got in there and you were introduced to Aldo and Marie Nicole. Okay.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, was Mr. Jackson present in the -- at the time you walked through the door.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you have any greetings with Mr. Jackson.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What did you do.
Star Arvizo: We all sat down and we started talking and he asked us if we were hungry.
Mr. Sneddon: He what.
Star Arvizo: He asked us if we were hungry.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you.
Star Arvizo: A little bit. It was -- so then we ordered room service. And then Michael took my brother into a separate room.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you actually see Mr. Jackson and your brother go to a separate room.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you, at some point, go into that room.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What was going on when you walked into the room.
Star Arvizo: They were cussing.
Mr. Sneddon: What do you mean, “they were cussing”.
Star Arvizo: They were saying bad words.
Mr. Sneddon: And what was the nature of what they were doing.
Star Arvizo: They were probably saying the “F” word, the “B” word, all different combinations.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you join into this.
Star Arvizo: I was right there, and he told me, yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Who told you.
Star Arvizo: Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Told you what.
Star Arvizo: To join in.
Mr. Sneddon: Why.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; calls for speculation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Mr. Jackson, when he said “join in”, did he say anything else about what you were joining.
Star Arvizo: What do you mean.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. At the time you walked in there, and they're cussing, correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you're asked to join in.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: How was this going about. Just --
Star Arvizo: They were just cussing. Like saying different combinations. And that's all. And he told me to join in.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you do that.
Star Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: How long did this go on.
Star Arvizo: Probably two minutes before Grace walked in.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you see where Grace -- who is Grace, by the way.
Star Arvizo: It's Prince and Paris's nanny.
Mr. Sneddon: Was this the first time you met her or had you met her before.
Star Arvizo: I've met her before.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did you meet her the first time.
Star Arvizo: The ranch. Neverland Ranch.
Mr. Sneddon: During your earlier visits.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: So, she walks -- when Grace walks in, what happened.
Star Arvizo: We stopped.
Mr. Sneddon: And then did she remain in the room.
Star Arvizo: She was talking to Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: And how long -- what happened after she finished talking to Mr. Jackson.
Star Arvizo: We went into his bedroom where Prince and Paris were.
Mr. Sneddon: By “you”, who do you mean.
Star Arvizo: Me and my brother and Michael and Grace. We all went back into the bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: So the room that you were in where all the cussing was going on was a separate room from the bedroom.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And how long did you remain in there.
Star Arvizo: Where.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes.
Star Arvizo: Five minutes probably. I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: And then where did you go.
Star Arvizo: I went back outside.
Mr. Sneddon: And what about your brother Gavin.
Star Arvizo: He stood with Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Where.
Star Arvizo: In the bedroom. Wherever he went.
Mr. Sneddon: So you didn't see Gavin come out.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: At some point that day, did -- well, let me ask it this way: How many times that day do you think you saw your brother Gavin go into a room with Mr. Jackson.
Star Arvizo: Probably once. I was off playing with Prince and Paris.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Where were you with Prince and Paris.
Star Arvizo: I was in the kitchen filling up water balloons.
Mr. Sneddon: Later, did you notice anything unusual about your brother.
Star Arvizo: Probably --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Star Arvizo: He was stumbling around.
Mr. Sneddon: Your brother.
Star Arvizo: Yes. And he had a soda can in his hand.
Mr. Sneddon: What else did you notice about your brother.
Star Arvizo: He wasn't acting right. He was acting funny.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember about what time of the day it was when all this was going on, when you saw your brother in this condition.
Star Arvizo: Nighttime.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you say anything to your mom about it.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you know what was -- what -- did you know why he was acting that way.
Star Arvizo: He walked over to me and told me -- well, I saw into the brim of his soda.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive. Move to strike.
The Court: Sustained; stricken.
Mr. Sneddon: I couldn't hear the Court.
The Court: Sustained; stricken.
Mr. Sneddon: When your brother was in this condition, did he come over and talk to you at all.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when he did, did you observe anything.
Star Arvizo: Yes, I saw --
Mr. Sneddon: Tell us what you observed.
Star Arvizo: I saw into his -- well, I saw the brim of his 7-Up can. 7-Up's clear, and I saw red around the 7-Up can. It was like -- it wasn't really dark red, but it was like light red. It was --
Mr. Sneddon: Did he say anything -- don't tell me what he said. Did he say anything to you at that time.
Star Arvizo: No, he was just, like, saying weird stuff. It didn't make sense.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, that evening, was Mr. Jackson present in the -- in the main room of the -- of the room there where Mr. Jackson's rooms were. Was he present.
Star Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember that evening whether you were going to watch something on T.V..
Star Arvizo: Oh, yeah. The “Living with Michael Jackson” was coming on.
Mr. Sneddon: How do you know that.
Star Arvizo: We knew that day that that was for -- that was the first day it was going to be aired. And Michael said for none of the T.V.'s to be on.
Mr. Sneddon: I couldn't hear you.
Star Arvizo: Michael said for none of the T.V.'s to be on.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you present when he said that.
Star Arvizo: No, it was just whenever we tried to turn on T.V., they were just turned off.
Mr. Sneddon: Who turned them off.
Star Arvizo: Well, anybody, really. What do you mean. Like --
Mr. Sneddon: Who turned the T.V.'s off when you turned them on.
Star Arvizo: There was one time I was sitting in the bedroom, and I was watching another -- it was like another special, or it was like an old one. And he walked in and he told me not to watch that, and he turned it off.
Mr. Sneddon: Who.
Star Arvizo: Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: The defendant.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, about the program that night, did you hear Mr. Jackson say anything about whether people could watch it or not watch it at their choice.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, the people that you said that you were introduced to by the name of Dieter and Ronald --
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- did you see them that day.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see them with Mr. Jackson that day.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you tell us what you saw them doing.
Star Arvizo: Walking around.
Mr. Sneddon: Where.
Star Arvizo: They walked into the bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall how long they were in there.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you give me an approximate of how long you think they were in there.
Star Arvizo: 20 minutes.
Mr. Sneddon: Were they in there on more than one occasion, that you saw personally.
Star Arvizo: No. Well, I only saw them once.
Mr. Sneddon: You just saw the one occasion.
Star Arvizo: Yeah, I was somewhere else.
Mr. Sneddon: You said you were somewhere else. Where was the “somewhere else” that you were.
Star Arvizo: With Prince and Paris and with Marie Nicole and Aldo.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was that in this complex.
Star Arvizo: Kitchen, the living room, the other bedroom that was right next to this hotel room or resort room.
The Court: Let's take our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: All right. Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Star, we're -- I'd like to go back to the point where we were in Miami at the Turnberry. Okay.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: And ask you a few more questions about some things that happened that evening. Okay.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at any time that evening, did you see your mother leave Mr. Jackson's rooms.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember about what time that was.
Star Arvizo: It was probably nighttime.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you know where she went.
Star Arvizo: She went back to the room.
Mr. Sneddon: And when your mother left, did you see something happen.
Star Arvizo: Um, I don't know who it was, but they sent someone to go get my mom.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see that.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: No, I meant, did you see them send somebody.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And then did you see your mom come back.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And was she alone or with somebody.
Star Arvizo: She was with someone.
Mr. Sneddon: The same person who left.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: When you were in Miami, did you personally ever participate in a press conference.
Star Arvizo: No. No.
Mr. Sneddon: To your knowledge, did your brother ever participate in a press conference.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Actually, I think we all liked it the better way where you could be heard. Could you lean a little closer.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: That's perfect. You'll save everybody a lot of problems if you just speak like that. On the time that you're in Miami at the Turnberry, did you ever drink any alcohol on that time.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember the day that you left Miami.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: I mean, do you remember anything that happened that day. Do you remember getting on the plane.
Star Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. What time was it when you got to the plane. Was it daylight or dark, or what.
Star Arvizo: It was turning into night.
Mr. Sneddon: And that particular day, during that day, do you remember anything that happened.
Star Arvizo: That day. I think that was the day that Michael gave my brother a watch.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember anything else that happened that day besides that.
Star Arvizo: Going home.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see Chris Tucker that day.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did you see him.
Star Arvizo: Michael's room.
Mr. Sneddon: On the day you left.
Star Arvizo: Oh, the day we left. No. Chris took me, my brother to the resort massage area, or where -- I don't know what it's called.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. When he took you there, what happened.
Star Arvizo: He -- we got massages.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever have a massage before.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Pardon.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: How did you get from the hotel to the airport.
Star Arvizo: By a shuttle.
Mr. Sneddon: And who was with you.
Star Arvizo: Michael, me and my brother, my sister, my mom, Grace, Prince and Paris, Marie Nicole, Aldo. Everyone that was there. And a guy named Dr. Farshshian, I think. I think that's how you pronounce his name.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did -- did you get on the plane.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did all of those folks get on the plane.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, I want to go back in point of time to ask you one other question about Miami, before we start talking about the plane trip. Okay.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: You told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury that at some point on one evening, you saw your brother acting kind of weird and saying some things that didn't make sense.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you notice anything about your brother the next morning.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you in the room the next morning when your brother -- when you woke up, was your brother in the room.
Star Arvizo: I think so.
Mr. Sneddon: Did your brother have any problems the next morning.
Star Arvizo: He didn't feel good. He had a headache.
Mr. Sneddon: Anything else.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Star Arvizo: He was -- he had a headache. He felt like he was going to throw up. Just didn't feel good.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Your Honor, at this point, if we could use the lights again, I'm going to show the witness some photographs. Counsel. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I'm going to show you some photographs. I'm going to lay them in front of you - they're all in evidence - and I'm going to go through them one by one with you. All right. Do you recognize the photograph that's marked as People's No. 17 in evidence.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who is that.
Star Arvizo: It's Dieter.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was it that you met Dieter for the first time.
Star Arvizo: In Miami.
Mr. Sneddon: And where in Miami.
Star Arvizo: In Michael's room.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And put that one down. Pick up the next one, People's 18 in evidence. Do you recognize that person.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who is that.
Star Arvizo: Ronald.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you meet Ronald for the first time.
Star Arvizo: Michael's room.
Mr. Sneddon: And where in Michael's -- were you in Miami.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Put that one down. The next photograph, which is People's 21, who is that.
Star Arvizo: That's Aldo.
Mr. Sneddon: Where was it the first time you met the person you know as Aldo.
Star Arvizo: In Miami.
Mr. Sneddon: Does Aldo have a nickname.
Star Arvizo: Yes, it's Baby Rubba.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Where did you meet him in Miami.
Star Arvizo: In Michael's bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. 22, People's 22 in evidence, who's that.
Star Arvizo: Marie Nicole.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you meet her for the first time.
Star Arvizo: In Michael's room.
Mr. Sneddon: Would that have been in Miami also.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Put that one down. The next one is People's 43. Do you recognize the person in that photograph.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who is that.
Star Arvizo: It's Grace. Prince and Paris's nanny.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. You can put that one down. And the next one is People's 14. Do you recognize that photograph.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who's that.
Star Arvizo: That's Dustin, Chris Tucker, Azja, my sister, me and my brother.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Why don't you use that little light and just show us which one is Dustin. That's the little child, correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, I have an exhibit that I've had marked as People's 341 for identification purposes at this point. I'm going to show it to you and ask you to look at it. Do you recognize that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what is that.
Star Arvizo: It's the airplane.
Mr. Sneddon: What airplane.
Star Arvizo: That we flew back from Miami.
Mr. Sneddon: Does that appear to be the interior of that airplane.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I move that 341 come into evidence. We used it -- Your Honor, I might indicate to the Court, we used it to illustrate the various locations of the individuals as they were seated on the plane to this witness's knowledge.
The Court: All right. It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Star, would you put that down in front of you, please, and take those other photographs and stick them up on top for me. Thank you very much. Now, I'm going to hand you this, and I'm going to give you this pen. Actually, I changed my mind. I'm going to give you this pen. Your Honor, with the Court's permission, I'm going to use the Elmo.
The Court: All right.
The Bailiff: You need to push “Elmo” on the little --
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Star, turning around and looking at the exhibit that's on the board - okay. - do you see that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: That's just like the one in front of you, correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Would you show the ladies and gentlemen of the jury where the defendant, Michael Jackson, was sitting on the plane. Okay. Now, would you please, on your exhibit in front of you, the one that's in front of you, put an “MJ”. Now, where was your brother on the plane. Okay. You're indicating the bottom of the diagram in the seat next to Mr. Jackson, correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Would you put a “G” at that location.
Star Arvizo: It's not working.
Mr. Sneddon: The pen's not working.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: That's all the county can afford, though.
Mr. Sneddon: Try that one. Is that working.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And that's red instead of blue.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Stick with that. Where were you sitting on the plane.
Star Arvizo: Right here.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Would you put your -- put an “S” in there for -- and by “here”, you mean to the far right side of the diagram in the white seat across from the blue couch.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was Aldo and Marie Nicole sitting, to your knowledge.
Star Arvizo: Aldo was sitting right here. And Marie Nicole was sitting right here.
Mr. Sneddon: On each side of the area that's in blue, correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Would you put “A” for where Aldo is seated. And just put an “MN” for Marie Nicole on the Exhibit 341. Now, where is -- where's your mother; do you recall.
Star Arvizo: She was sitting right there.
Mr. Sneddon: So it's the -- on the lower half of the diagram, it's the seat up toward the left side, correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Why don't you put a “JA” in there. And then you mentioned a person by the name -- a doctor.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Doctor what.
Star Arvizo: Dr. Farshshian.
Mr. Sneddon: Where was he seated.
Star Arvizo: Right there.
Mr. Sneddon: Why don't you just put a “DR” in there. And that's the seat right across from where your mother was; is that right.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, who else was on the plane.
Star Arvizo: Prince, Paris, my sister, a lady named Patty, and Grace.
Mr. Sneddon: Where was Patty. All right. Why don't you just put a “P” in there. And then the lady you've identified as Grace, the nanny, where was she. Okay. Why don't you put a “GR” in there. And by that, you're referring to the top part of the plane, correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, where was your sister Davellin.
Star Arvizo: She was right there.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Why don't you put a “DA” there.
Star Arvizo: The pen is starting to run out. Wait. There it goes. Never mind.
Mr. Zonen: It's just the surface.
Mr. Sneddon: The surface. All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Did it work.
Star Arvizo: Yeah, it's working now.
Mr. Sneddon: And next to Davellin was who.
Star Arvizo: Paris.
Mr. Sneddon: Who.
Star Arvizo: Paris.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Just put a “PA” in there, if you would. Now, during the time that you were on the plane, after you left Miami, did you ever get up and move to any other location on the plane.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did you move to. All right. You're indicating in the blue area.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the seat the farthest to the left of the blue area.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And who was in that seat when you took off.
Star Arvizo: Aldo.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. So would you please put “S-1” in there.
Star Arvizo: The pen's not working anymore.
Mr. Sneddon: Just try it. I think it's the surface, not the pen.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Did it work.
Star Arvizo: No. But --
The Bailiff: Here. Mr. Sneddon.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's try this one.
Star Arvizo: It's working.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you.
The Bailiff: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, was there a telephone on the plane.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where. All right. On your exhibit, put a “TF”.
Star Arvizo: “TF”.
Mr. Sneddon: “TF”, where the telephone was. Now, at any time when you were on the plane, did you see your brother and Mr. Jackson drinking anything.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What did you see.
Star Arvizo: I saw Michael with a Diet Coke can, and my brother with a Sprite can.
Mr. Sneddon: With a -- what kind.
Star Arvizo: A -- I don't know exactly what brand it is, but it was a soda can.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, were you ever offered to drink out of either one of those cans.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: By whom.
Star Arvizo: By Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did he say to you.
Star Arvizo: He leaned over and he handed it to me. I thought it was Diet Coke so -- I didn't want to be rude, so I took a drink, and it tasted like the smell of, like, rubbing alcohol. It tasted really -- so I handed it back to him. And I asked him what it was, and then he said it was wine.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you drink any more out of that can during this trip.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did -- tell me what you saw your brother and Mr. Jackson doing during the trip.
Star Arvizo: I saw my brother -- after a while he didn't feel too good. So my brother leaned over on his -- on Michael's chest and he -- I saw Michael's head licking my brother's -- the top of his head.
Mr. Sneddon: What do you mean.
Star Arvizo: He was just licking his head.
Mr. Sneddon: How long did that last.
Star Arvizo: I don't know. Six seconds probably.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you notice any change in the behavior of Mr. Jackson during the flight.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Star Arvizo: Really weird.
Mr. Sneddon: What do you mean, “really weird”.
Star Arvizo: Like, just didn't make sense.
Mr. Sneddon: Who.
Star Arvizo: Michael. And my brother.
Mr. Sneddon: That telephone that's on the plane, did you ever see the telephone used during the trip.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: By whom.
Star Arvizo: By Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did you see happen. Or did you hear anything, also.
Star Arvizo: He made a crank call.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Star Arvizo: He made a crank call.
Mr. Sneddon: What do you mean, “a crank call”.
Star Arvizo: He called someone and he --
Mr. Sneddon: You have to lean into the phone there, lean into the microphone, if you would. What is a crank call, to you.
Star Arvizo: To me.
Mr. Sneddon: What does it mean.
Star Arvizo: Oh. Just when you call someone and hang up on them.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
Star Arvizo: That's what it means to me. But what I saw Michael doing, was he called up and he said he was having a consensus, and he wanted to know how big her p-u-s-s-y was. And that's what he said to her.
Mr. Sneddon: How many such calls did you hear him make.
Star Arvizo: Two, on the plane.
Mr. Sneddon: Did your brother make any calls.
Star Arvizo: I don't remember. He probably did.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you make any calls.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you mentioned something about a watch. When was the first time that you saw your brother Gavin with a watch.
Star Arvizo: It was at the end of the flight, and I saw it on his wrist.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did your brother ordinarily have a watch.
Star Arvizo: No, he never wears a watch.
Mr. Sneddon: The first time you saw it was when you got off the plane.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see it at all on the plane.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Where were you when you saw the watch for the first time.
Star Arvizo: We were leaving. We were getting off the plane.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you see Mr. Jackson at any point in time wearing a jacket.
Star Arvizo: Oh, yeah. That was at the -- Miami. When he first opened the door, he had a black jacket with a bunch of shiny stuff on his back.
Mr. Sneddon: When your brother got off the plane --
Star Arvizo: He had that on also.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when the plane landed, can you tell us.... Your Honor, I think we can put the lights back on, if the Court would like, and we can take this item off. Okay. Star --
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- just -- we don't need -- let me grab the diagrams. Oh, would you write your name on the bottom of that diagram, please. “The diagram” meaning 341.
Star Arvizo: I'll have to carve it in, because it doesn't appear. There you go.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. When you got back -- when -- excuse me. When the plane landed, did you know where you were.
Star Arvizo: We were at a private airport in Santa Barbara.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you got off the plane, where did you go. I mean, what -- physically, where did you go.
Star Arvizo: We were heading for the ranch.
Mr. Sneddon: And how did you get to the ranch.
Star Arvizo: By a stretch white Excursion limousine.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember about how long it took to get from the airport to the ranch.
Star Arvizo: 30 minutes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you got to the ranch, was it daytime or nighttime.
Star Arvizo: Nighttime.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you got to the ranch, what did you do.
Star Arvizo: We all went to sleep. And me, Aldo, my brother, we went to Michael's room and --
Mr. Sneddon: You're going to have to lean into the microphone. I can't even hear you.
Star Arvizo: Me, Aldo, my brother, we all went to bed. We all went to sleep in Michael's bed.
Mr. Sneddon: Where was the defendant, Mr. Jackson.
Star Arvizo: There also.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did he sleep.
Star Arvizo: In the bed with us.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you see -- when you got to the ranch, did you see where your mother went.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Pardon.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see where your sister went.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, I want to jump forward just a moment, Star. Are you familiar with a person by the name of Jesus.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And to your knowledge, who was Jesus.
Star Arvizo: He was part of security.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you meet Jesus.
Star Arvizo: At the ranch.
Mr. Sneddon: And when was the first time you met Jesus.
Star Arvizo: After the Miami trip.
Mr. Sneddon: And at some point in time after you got back from Miami and you were on the ranch, did you leave the ranch with Jesus.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did you go.
Star Arvizo: We went to -- I think we went to our grandmother's house.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember who drove you.
Star Arvizo: Jesus.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember what car you went in.
Star Arvizo: It was a Rolls Royce or something like that. It was --
Mr. Sneddon: A fancy car.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, here's what I want to do. I want to ask you some questions, Star --
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- about what happened when you got back on the ranch from Miami, or you got on the ranch from Miami, to the time you left the ranch with Jesus. Okay.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Between that time period.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: During the time that you were there, from the time you got -- that you went to the ranch from Miami and the time that you left with Jesus, was the defendant, Michael Jackson, on the ranch.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: During that time that you were on the ranch, can you tell us where you spent the nights during that period of time.
Star Arvizo: Michael's bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: With whom.
Star Arvizo: With Michael, my brother, Aldo.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you sleep.
Star Arvizo: On the bed.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did your brother sleep.
Star Arvizo: On the bed.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did the defendant sleep.
Star Arvizo: On the bed.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did Aldo sleep.
Star Arvizo: On the bed.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember who slept next to who.
Star Arvizo: It was -- depends on your point of view.
Mr. Sneddon: Depends on the point of view.
Star Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Who slept next to you.
Star Arvizo: Aldo.
Mr. Sneddon: And who slept -- and who slept next to Aldo.
Star Arvizo: My brother.
Mr. Sneddon: And who slept next to your brother.
Star Arvizo: Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, between the time that you got to the ranch from Miami and the time that you left with Jesus - okay --.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- did you drink any alcohol.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember on how many occasions.
Star Arvizo: I think so.
Mr. Sneddon: Pardon.
Star Arvizo: It was -- it was a lot of times.
Mr. Sneddon: And with whom did you drink.
Star Arvizo: Only with Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Star Arvizo: Only with Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there anybody else present when you and Mr. -- when the defendant were drinking alcohol.
Star Arvizo: Me, my brother, and Aldo.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you drink alcohol with Mr. Jackson during that time.
Star Arvizo: Bedroom. His office. And the wine cellar.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you describe where the wine cellar is.
Star Arvizo: It's in the arcade downstairs, and the jukebox thing covers the stairs.
Mr. Sneddon: What did you drink when you drank with the defendant.
Star Arvizo: Red or white wine.
Mr. Sneddon: How many times do you think you were in Mr. Jackson's office and drank with him.
Star Arvizo: A couple times.
Mr. Sneddon: And how many times do you think you drank with him in his bedroom.
Star Arvizo: A lot of times.
Mr. Sneddon: And the cellar.
Star Arvizo: Probably twice.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember what Mr. Jackson drank during these occasions.
Star Arvizo: Wine, with us. It was either red or white.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Mr. Jackson have a term that he referred to in connection with the wine.
Star Arvizo: He called it “Jesus juice”.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you describe to us -- now, I want to make sure we're just talking about the time when you got there from Miami till the time that you left with Jesus. Okay.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Did you at any time, during that period of time when you were drinking with the defendant, Mr. Jackson, see him get intoxicated.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: How many times.
Star Arvizo: I don't remember. But it was probably a couple times.
Mr. Sneddon: During the time that you stayed at the ranch, did you learn where the location of the alcohol was on the ranch.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where.
Star Arvizo: It was in the wine cellar. And it was also -- it was just in the wine cellar.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Star Arvizo: It was just in the wine cellar. And there's some type of alcohol in a refrigerated area.
Mr. Sneddon: And where is this refrigerated area located.
Star Arvizo: Right when you walk in through the back of the house, of the main house, there's, like, refrigerators and glass doors. And it's, like, back there.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you actually see the alcohol in that area.
Star Arvizo: No. But I know there was some there.
Mr. Sneddon: The wine cellar, how do you get into the wine cellar.
Star Arvizo: You need a key and you need to go through a door.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you know where the key was.
Star Arvizo: Not really. It was in the lounge. And I know where it was. Whoever opened the wine cellar, it was like -- it was Jesus or someone else.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you ever in the wine cellar without the defendant.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury that when you were on the plane, you overheard Mr. Jackson make some crank calls, correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you ever present where any crank calls were made from the ranch.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was that. Where did that occur.
Star Arvizo: Upstairs in his bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: And who was present.
Star Arvizo: Me, Aldo, my brother, and Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: The defendant.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell us what went on.
Star Arvizo: Started making crank calls.
Mr. Sneddon: Who.
Star Arvizo: Michael, Aldo, me and my brother.
Mr. Sneddon: And tell us, when you made the crank calls, how did you pick the number.
Star Arvizo: Just dialed any number.
Mr. Sneddon: And when people picked up the phone, what was said.
Star Arvizo: I don't know. I don't know exactly what was said.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever make any of these calls.
Star Arvizo: I think so, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What happened if nobody picked up on the other end of the line.
Star Arvizo: Michael would have us take a drink of wine.
Mr. Sneddon: Who would.
Star Arvizo: If the phone number didn't exist, we'd have to drink a drink of wine, or he'd have us drink wine.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see alcohol in Mr. Jackson's bedroom.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: On how many occasions.
Star Arvizo: Many occasions. Many occasions.
Mr. Sneddon: Where was it, usually.
Star Arvizo: Probably on the floor, or around the dresser somewhere.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember how many particular occasions that you -- that the four of you did these crank calls. Was it on more than one night.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: How many nights.
Star Arvizo: Many nights.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Star Arvizo: Many nights.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you give me an estimate.
Star Arvizo: Seven. I don't know exactly.
Mr. Sneddon: Were all of these occasions where -- when you placed the crank calls before you left with Jesus.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you -- during the time that you got to Neverland Ranch and the time that you left with Jesus, did you see your mother at all.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see her out around the grounds at all.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you visit her at all.
Star Arvizo: A couple times.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did you visit her.
Star Arvizo: In her guest room, guest unit.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, from the time that you arrived at the ranch from Miami till the time you left with Jesus - okay --.
Star Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: I showed you a photograph of a person that you've identified as the person you knew as Dieter.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever see Dieter at the ranch.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the person who you identified as Ronald. Did you ever see Ronald at the ranch.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the person you identified as Tyson, Frank Tyson, did you ever see him at the ranch.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, during the time that you were at the ranch, when you got there until the time you two left with Jesus, did you go to school.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you do any homework.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: What did you do.
Star Arvizo: Nothing. We -- nothing.
Mr. Sneddon: What time did you ordinarily go to bed.
Star Arvizo: 2:00 in the morning, and 3:00. It was really late at night.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see -- while you were at the ranch, between the time you arrived there from Miami till the time that you left with Jesus, did you see the defendant, Mr. Jackson, with either Dieter or Ronald.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: On how many occasions.
Star Arvizo: Probably saw him about three occasions.
Mr. Sneddon: And were both Dieter and Ronald with Mr. Jackson, or was it just one of them.
Star Arvizo: I think it was both of them.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall where you saw them.
Star Arvizo: In his bedroom, in a guest unit, and in his office.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you ever have any -- during the same time frame - okay. - did you have any contact with Dieter.
Star Arvizo: No. I don't think so.
Mr. Sneddon: Did the subject matter of your brother's watch ever come up during this time.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell the jury what happened in that regard.
Star Arvizo: He pulled us into a guest unit.
Mr. Sneddon: Who's “he”.
Star Arvizo: Dieter.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Star Arvizo: And he said that he wanted to take the --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, it's offered as -- under 2 -- 1223.
The Court: All right. I'll admit it conditionally, as I have other hearsay statements.
Mr. Sneddon: Go ahead.
Star Arvizo: Okay. So he said that he wanted to take back the watch and put it in a safe, so when he turns 18 he could take it out.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you present -- what did your brother say.
Star Arvizo: He said, “No”.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you able to see the relationship between your mother and Dieter and Ronald.
Star Arvizo: What do you mean.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see any interaction between them, between your mother and Dieter and Ronald.
Star Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you -- during this period of time, from the time you arrived from Miami until the time that you left with Jesus, did the subject matter of you participating in a video interview come up.
Star Arvizo: They wanted -- they wanted us to only say good things about Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Who's that.
Star Arvizo: Dieter was telling me and my -- my mom, my brother, my sister and me, they only wanted us to say good things about Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever see anything written down.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where. Where were you when you saw that.
Star Arvizo: I was in the guest unit.
Mr. Sneddon: And who was present.
Star Arvizo: Dieter, me and my mom and my brother, my sister.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, do you remember -- do you remember leaving with Jesus.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And tell the jury what time you left and under what circumstances.
Star Arvizo: It was really late at night. It was really late at night, and it was spontaneous. He just -- he pulled around the car and we left.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, where were all your clothes prior to leaving.
Star Arvizo: In the room.
Mr. Sneddon: What room.
Star Arvizo: Guest unit.
Mr. Sneddon: Your clothes were in the guest unit.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: So you gathered up your belongings, you got in the car and you left. Where did you go.
Star Arvizo: To my grandma's house.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at the time that you were at the ranch before you left with Jesus, were you -- did you personally -- not what somebody else said, but did you personally hear anybody threaten anyone.
Star Arvizo: When I was trying to head to my -- when I was trying to head to my mom's guest unit, Frank approached me, and he was -- he was -- I don't remember what I was trying to do, but I was trying to go to my mom's guest unit, and Frank was telling me that he has ways that my grand --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Sneddon: Same offer, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. This is conditionally admitted under the previous instruction.
Mr. Sneddon: Go ahead. You can tell us, please.
Star Arvizo: He was saying that he has ways that my grandparents could disappear.
Mr. Sneddon: And that was told to you personally.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you tell that to anybody else.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you ever go back to the ranch after that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So I want to talk about now, I want to talk about some events that occurred from the time that you left the ranch with Jesus till the time you went back.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Do you -- where did you spend that time.
Star Arvizo: At my grandma's house.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you ever over at Jay Jackson's house.
Star Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember an occasion where a private investigator came to Mr. Jackson's house and there was an interview with you and the family.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. The answer was, “Yes”. Next question.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you tell us when you believe that to have occurred.
Star Arvizo: Oh, it was probably a couple days after we came back from the ranch the first time.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you present during that conversation.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you participate in that conversation.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you said -- I believe you just said you went back to the ranch.
Star Arvizo: No, when we came back from the ranch.
Mr. Sneddon: When you came back from the ranch. Did you ever go back to the ranch.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember who you were with when you went back to the ranch.
Star Arvizo: No, I don't remember.
Mr. Sneddon: You went back by yourself.
Star Arvizo: No, I went back with my -- my brother, my sister and -- I don't think -- I don't know. I think it was --
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry, you're going to have to lean into the mike.
Star Arvizo: I think it was my brother, my sister, me and my mom.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember what time it was when you got back to the ranch.
Star Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Sneddon: Was it daytime or nighttime.
Star Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Sneddon: Did anything unusual happen when you got back to the ranch.
Star Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Sneddon: The people you've identified as Dieter and Ronald --
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- do you remember whether or not they were at the ranch when you got back.
Star Arvizo: Yes, they were there.
Mr. Sneddon: When you got back to the ranch, where did you go that night. Where did you sleep that night.
Star Arvizo: Michael's room.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And who else was there.
Star Arvizo: My brother, Michael. I don't -- Aldo.
Mr. Sneddon: Pardon.
Star Arvizo: Aldo.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you -- you left the ranch again, correct. Do you remember the next time you left the ranch.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What was the reason you left.
Star Arvizo: To do a rebuttal.
Mr. Sneddon: And who did you leave with.
Star Arvizo: Hamid.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you know where you went.
Star Arvizo: We went to his house.
Mr. Sneddon: By “his house”, you mean who.
Star Arvizo: Hamid's house.
Mr. Sneddon: And who else was with you in the car besides you and Hamid.
Star Arvizo: My brother and my sister.
Mr. Sneddon: When you got to Hamid's house, what did you do.
Star Arvizo: Me and my brother, we sat down, we started playing video games.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there anybody else there at the time that you arrived besides you and your brother and your sister and Hamid.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did anybody else arrive after that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who arrived after that.
Star Arvizo: Vinnie, my mom, other people.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember the names of any of those people.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember how many there were.
Star Arvizo: A lot.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you said you and your brother were playing video games. What room were you in.
Star Arvizo: The living room.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall the filming -- the actual filming that occurred later. Was it in that room or a different room.
Star Arvizo: It was in that room.
Mr. Sneddon: And when your mother arrived, where was your mother. Was she in that room or another room.
Star Arvizo: She was -- she was in another room.
Mr. Sneddon: With you.
Star Arvizo: What do you mean. Like --
Mr. Sneddon: I couldn't hear you.
Star Arvizo: At what time.
Mr. Sneddon: When she first got there, where was she.
Star Arvizo: She was where the pool table was.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that in the living room or another room.
Star Arvizo: That's another room.
Mr. Sneddon: And so she was in there. How long was she in there.
Star Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: You weren't in there, right.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, before you left the ranch -- before you left the ranch with Hamid to go to his house - okay. - could you tell me whether or not Dieter or Ronald were there.
Star Arvizo: They were there.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you tell me whether or not you had any meeting with -- or conversation with them.
Star Arvizo: Yes, we had a conversation with them.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did -- let's talk about Dieter. Who was doing the talking.
Star Arvizo: Dieter.
Mr. Sneddon: What did he say.
Star Arvizo: He was telling me just to say only good things and -- about Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Who else was present during that conversation.
Star Arvizo: My brother, my sister, my mom.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. You're at Hamid's house and you're about ready to -- for the filming. Do you remember what time it was when you got to Hamid's.
Star Arvizo: 1:00 in the morning, when we first got there.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember the filming.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you in the whole film.
Star Arvizo: I think so.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, the things that you said on the film, the rebuttal film - okay.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: You have to indicate “Yes” or “No”.
Star Arvizo: Oh, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: There's a statement in there that the defendant, Mr. Jackson, helped you do your homework. Was that true.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: And there's a statement in there that you always had his telephone number so you could get ahold of him. Is that true.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: How did you feel about Mr. Jackson at the time you participated in this rebuttal film.
Star Arvizo: I don't remember. Probably at that point I thought he was an okay guy.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, after the film, do you remember about what time it was when you left.
Star Arvizo: 3:00 in the morning.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did you go.
Star Arvizo: To Major Jackson's house. Jay Jackson's.
Mr. Sneddon: Who took you there.
Star Arvizo: Vinnie.
Mr. Sneddon: And who was with you when you went there.
Star Arvizo: Me, my brother, my sister and my mom.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember meeting some ladies from the -- social workers.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when did that happen.
Star Arvizo: The next morning.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did it happen.
Star Arvizo: At the apartment.
Mr. Sneddon: At whose apartment.
Star Arvizo: Jay's apartment.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember about what time it was when that happened.
Star Arvizo: Probably 10:00 a.m.
Mr. Sneddon: And who -- that morning, were there other people there besides the social workers.
Star Arvizo: My mom.
Mr. Sneddon: Who else.
Star Arvizo: My brother, my sister and me.
Mr. Sneddon: Anybody else.
Star Arvizo: Well, in the beginning of the morning, there was a, like, bodyguard sent by Michael or something. And he had a tape-recorder. And Azja was there also.
Mr. Sneddon: And Azja is Chris Tucker's fiancee --
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- at the time.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Had you ever met this bodyguard before.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember what his name was at all.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you describe him for us, please.
Star Arvizo: Big.
Mr. Sneddon: You say he had a tape-recorder. How do you know that.
Star Arvizo: He had it in his -- I believe it was his left hand.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever see him talk to your mother.
Star Arvizo: He said that someone wanted her to have this, or something.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you present when that occurred.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: You heard him say that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you hear what your mother said.
Star Arvizo: No. I don't remember what my mom said. But the -- but the three ladies said that she can't have that, and they both need to wait downstairs.
Mr. Sneddon: They both had to wait downstairs. Who are “they”.
Star Arvizo: Azja and the guy.
Mr. Sneddon: Did they leave the room --
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- at some point.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever see the tape-recorder after that.
Star Arvizo: No. I never saw him after that.
Mr. Sneddon: And then you had an interview with the ladies from -- the three social workers.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you had the interview with the social workers, was everybody in the same room or did they take people separately.
Star Arvizo: Everyone was in the same room.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember any conversations with the social workers about what you said to them.
Star Arvizo: Not really. I don't remember what I exactly said.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember the topics that were covered by the questions.
Star Arvizo: I think everyone was wondering whether -- no, I don't remember.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, take your time.
Star Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Sneddon: Was everything you told them the truth.
Star Arvizo: No, not exactly.
Mr. Sneddon: What do you mean, “not exactly”.
Star Arvizo: Like -- I don't know. Just, like, he never -- he never really helped us with our homework. He -- can't think of another example.
Mr. Sneddon: During the time -- during the entire time that you were at Neverland Ranch, from the time you got there from Miami till the time you left for the very last time - okay. - from that time period, did you ever see your mother in Michael Jackson's bedroom.
Star Arvizo: No. She never left her guest unit.
Mr. Sneddon: So how did she eat.
Star Arvizo: I don't know. There's a couple times I brought her some food I made her, but --
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever tell your mom the code to get into Michael Jackson's bedroom.
Star Arvizo: No. She never asked.
Mr. Sneddon: To your knowledge, did you ever see your sister Davellin sleep in that main residence/house.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: To your knowledge, did your sister Davellin ever have a friend of hers that went to school with her up at the ranch during this period of time.
Star Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, during the time that you knew Mr. Jackson, did he used to call you “Star”.
Star Arvizo: No. No.
Mr. Sneddon: What did he call you.
Star Arvizo: “Blow Hole”.
Mr. Sneddon: “Blow Hole”.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when he talked to Gavin, did he call Gavin “Gavin”.
Star Arvizo: Yes, he called him “Apple Head” or “Doo-Doo”.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you have a name that you called the defendant.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever -- anybody refer to him as “Michael” or “Michael Daddy”, or “Daddy”.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Star Arvizo: My brother called him “Daddy”.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you hear him do that on more than one occasion.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: How many.
Star Arvizo: I know it was more than twice.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, after the -- excuse me. After you had the interview with the social workers - okay --.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- where did you go.
Star Arvizo: Me, me brother, my sister went with Azja back to the ranch.
Mr. Sneddon: And your mother.
Star Arvizo: I think she stood behind.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, I would like to show you a few more photographs at this point, if we could. All right. I'm going to start with a couple of photographs that are already in evidence. And I'm going to show you a photograph marked as People's No. 30. And tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury who that is.
Star Arvizo: That's Jesus.
Mr. Sneddon: And -- let me just leave these here, and I'll go get them and ask you some questions.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can we switch to the PC, Your Honor. Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. So the person -- that's the person that took you to your grandparents' place.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, let's look at the next one, No. 29. Who is that.
Star Arvizo: That's Hamid.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember where it was that you met Hamid for the very first time.
Star Arvizo: Can't remember.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Why don't you turn that over, then. And the next one is 193. Is that the number on it.
Star Arvizo: It's 194.
Mr. Sneddon: 194. All right. What is that.
Star Arvizo: That's not the picture I'm looking at.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Star Arvizo: 194.
Mr. Sneddon: What about it.
Star Arvizo: That's not the picture.
Mr. Sneddon: What's the number.
Star Arvizo: That one, that's it.
Mr. Sneddon: That's 194.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. What is that.
Star Arvizo: This is Hamid's living room and this is where we did the videotaping.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. You were in here playing video games.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where.
Star Arvizo: Right there. Right there.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you playing it on the T.V..
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: So the T.V. that's located on the far left-hand corner of that exhibit, correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: 194. Now, where is the area where the filming was done.
Star Arvizo: All in this area.
Mr. Sneddon: You're indicating where the glass doors are and the farthest of the two rugs.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, is -- all right. Let's go to the last photograph. Before -- it's already on the board. Do you recognize that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What number is that.
Star Arvizo: 193.
Mr. Sneddon: And 193, is that an accurate depiction of the pool table room.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, 193 is not in evidence. Ask that it be admitted.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: And where is the -- where is the -- can you see in that photograph the room where the video took place.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And “that photograph” being 193.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you show the ladies and gentlemen of the jury. So it's through the opening there where the rug is shown on the far left-hand side, correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Counsel. I just have a few more. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Auchincloss: Your Honor, could we black out the screen for just a moment. Thank you. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to hand you those. All right. Would you please pull up the photograph up there that has the number “125” on it. Do you see that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell me what it is.
Star Arvizo: That's the hotel that we stood at while we were getting our passports and visas.
Mr. Sneddon: Judge, could we go to “Input 1”. Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: And who were you there with.
Star Arvizo: Frank, Vinnie, and a guy named Johnny. And my mom, my brother and my sister.
Mr. Sneddon: And who was in the room with you.
Star Arvizo: My mom, my brother and my sister.
Mr. Sneddon: And the guy Johnny, where was he.
Star Arvizo: He was in the lobby.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know approximately how long you stayed at this place, the Country Inn and Suites.
Star Arvizo: Four days, something like that.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's see the next photograph, which should be --
Star Arvizo: 135.
Mr. Sneddon: -- 135. Do you recognize that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What is that.
Star Arvizo: That's the hotel's kitchen. Well, that's the room that we stood in. And that's the kitchen.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And then the next photograph, which is No. 19 that's in evidence, do you recognize the person in that photograph.
Star Arvizo: That's Vinnie.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember where it was that you met Vinnie for the first time.
Star Arvizo: It was at the taping at Hamid's house.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I think we can go back to the regular lights, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you've told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury that you were at the Calabasas Inn for a number of days.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What did you do there. Tell me what -- some of the things you did.
Star Arvizo: We got our passports and visas.
Mr. Sneddon: Did -- you say “we”. Who's “we”.
Star Arvizo: My brother, my sister and my mom.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you do that -- were you alone when you did that or did somebody go with you.
Star Arvizo: Frank and Vinnie were with us.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember where you went to get the passports.
Star Arvizo: I think it's -- I don't remember where the building was. But I remember where we got a pass -- our pictures.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did you get your pictures taken.
Star Arvizo: At a Walgreen's.
Mr. Sneddon: Did -- were you with -- did you go to get a visa.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And who went with you.
Star Arvizo: Frank and Vinnie.
Mr. Sneddon: And anybody else.
Star Arvizo: My mom, my brother and my sister and me.
Mr. Sneddon: While you were at the Calabasas Inn there, did you go shopping.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did you go shopping.
Star Arvizo: We went to some outlets. We shopped at a Levis store, Club Banana store, and we shopped for luggage.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you know why you were shopping.
Star Arvizo: Because we were going to go to Brazil.
Mr. Sneddon: And who told you you were going to go to Brazil.
Star Arvizo: I think it was Frank. Because he wanted us to -- he wanted it to be educational or something.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that what he said.
Star Arvizo: Yeah, that's what he was telling us.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Frank say anything to you whether or not the defendant, Michael Jackson, was going to go to Brazil with you.
Star Arvizo: He said about four weeks after we were there, then Michael was going to come.
Mr. Sneddon: So it was going to be a long trip.
Star Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember anything else about the time that you stayed in Calabasas. Did you ever go to the swimming pool.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Why.
Star Arvizo: We never had time to. Well, we never went to the swimming pool.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you -- during the time you were there, do you know where Frank and Vinnie were staying.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where.
Star Arvizo: Down the hall from us.
Mr. Sneddon: How do you know that.
Star Arvizo: Because we saw them.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell us how that happened.
Star Arvizo: When we were -- when he set us up in our room, we saw him walk back to his room.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever see them on any other occasions when they were in their room, or when you walked past their room.
Star Arvizo: What. I don't -- no.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So when you came back -- so after you were at Calabasas, where did you go after all that was done, the things you've described.
Star Arvizo: We went back to the ranch.
Mr. Sneddon: And who took you back to the ranch.
Star Arvizo: Frank.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at any time while you were at the ranch, after you got back from this trip where you were at -- not “trip”, but stay at Calabasas, okay. Are you with me.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Did the subject of monitoring telephones ever come up.
Star Arvizo: Monitoring telephones.
Mr. Sneddon: Telephone calls, yeah.
Star Arvizo: There's a way that we could listen in to people's calls.
Mr. Sneddon: How did you know that.
Star Arvizo: Michael showed us. Showed us.
Mr. Sneddon: When did he show you that.
Star Arvizo: I think it was after the Calabasas that we stood at.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you present when he did that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell us about it.
Star Arvizo: You just push “speaker” and “mute” -- I don't know, you just -- he showed us one day. And we were listening to the guards' conversation.
Mr. Sneddon: With who.
Star Arvizo: I think he was talking to another guard, or somebody. He was talking to somebody. But I don't remember.
Mr. Sneddon: How many occasions did you see that happen, with Mr. Jackson.
Star Arvizo: Two occasions.
Mr. Sneddon: May I have one moment, Your Honor. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, tell us, where were these phones located in Mr. Jackson's room.
Star Arvizo: The master phone.
Mr. Sneddon: The one that you've told us about.
Star Arvizo: Oh. It's located near the piano. On the dresser near the piano.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you told us earlier that there was a phone -- the time when you made crank calls --
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- where was that phone.
Star Arvizo: The phone upstairs.
Mr. Sneddon: Upstairs where.
Star Arvizo: In his bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: So these are different phones.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, how did it work that you could overhear somebody's conversation.
Star Arvizo: You push the “speaker” button, you push “mute”, and then you pushed on the green light.
Mr. Sneddon: How did you learn that.
Star Arvizo: From Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Which of the two phones was it that you could monitor conversations on.
Star Arvizo: The one downstairs.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, are you familiar with a movie called “The Devil's Backbone”.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Where was it the first time you saw that movie.
Star Arvizo: Upstairs.
Mr. Sneddon: Upstairs where.
Star Arvizo: In his bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: Whose bedroom.
Star Arvizo: Michael's bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: And how many times have you seen that movie.
Star Arvizo: Three times.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you see it the other two times.
Star Arvizo: In his bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Mr. Jackson ever say anything to you about that movie.
Star Arvizo: There was one time, Frank was walking up, and there was a girl on the movie -- or a movie, and he just kept on saying “clitoris”.
Mr. Sneddon: Who did.
Star Arvizo: Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know what that means.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know what it means now.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know what it meant then.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, was there -- after you got back from Calabasas - okay --.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- was there ever an occasion where anything else unusual happened between you and your brother and the defendant, Michael Jackson.
Star Arvizo: Do you mean after staying at Cal -- what was it. What was the question.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah. Anything else unusual that you saw about the defendant, Michael Jackson.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Pardon.
Star Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you ever recall an occasion where he walked into the room and you and your brother were on a bed.
Star Arvizo: Oh.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sneddon: Just -- do you recall that occasion, when you were sitting on the bed, and he walked into the room.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury what you saw.
Star Arvizo: Me and my brother were watching a movie, and Michael walked up naked. And he walked to the corner of the room, picked up something. Me and my brother were grossed out. And he sat on the bed and he told us it was natural, and then he walked back downstairs.
Mr. Sneddon: Did either you or your brother say anything to him. Let me break it up, because I don't want to get a compound problem here. Did you say anything to him when he walked in.
Star Arvizo: I was just grossed out.
Mr. Sneddon: No, but did you say anything to him.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did brother say anything to him in your presence.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sneddon: The answer was.
Star Arvizo: “No”.
Mr. Sneddon: How long was it that Mr. Jackson was in the room with you and your brother naked.
Star Arvizo: Probably about two minutes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see anything else about Mr. Jackson at that time.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: When you say he was naked, what was he wearing, if anything.
Star Arvizo: Nothing.
Mr. Sneddon: Totally naked.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: So you could see his private parts.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see anything about his private parts, one way or the other.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Star Arvizo: What.
Mr. Sneddon: I asked you if you saw his private parts.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Anything unusual about his private parts.
Star Arvizo: Oh, he had a hard-on.
Mr. Sneddon: That's what you call it.
Star Arvizo: Well, that's what Dr. Katz called it, so --
Mr. Sneddon: What do you call it.
Star Arvizo: Erection.
Mr. Sneddon: Either way, that's what you saw.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I think we can get this in before the break, Your Honor, or at least part of it.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to show you a series of photographs and ask you --
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- ask you to see if you can identify these photographs. Okay. Now, I'm going to ask you questions about each one of these. All right.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: But I'm just going to ask you questions to lay the foundation that they're accurate, and then we'll discuss what they are later. All right.
Star Arvizo: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: So, make sure you don't tell us what's in the photograph until I've properly authenticated it. All right.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Thanks, Star. Let's start with the photograph that's marked as People's 91 for identification purposes. Do you recognize what's depicted in that photograph.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that -- is the -- are the items that are depicted in that photograph an accurate depiction as you know them to be.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Why don't you turn that one over. And we're going to have to do this through all of them, okay. The next one's 93, I believe.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to 93, is that an accurate depiction of the area as you know it to be.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the next one is 92; is that correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that the right number.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And is that an accurate depiction of the area as you know it to be.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And the next one is 90; is that correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that an accurate depiction of the area as you know it to be.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the next one is what number. 69.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that an accurate depiction of the area as you know it to be.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And 55, is that the next one.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that an accurate depiction.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what is the number on the next one.
Star Arvizo: 58.
Mr. Sneddon: And 58, is that an accurate depiction --
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- of the area as you know it to be.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And the next one is 158.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that an accurate depiction of the area as you know it to be.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the next one is 165.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that an accurate depiction of the area as you know it to be.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And 71.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that an accurate depiction.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. 72.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that an accurate depiction.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Turn that one over. And 74, is that the next one.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that an accurate depiction of the area as you know it to be.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Turn that over. Now, the next two should be 75; is that correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: That's already in evidence. So just turn that over for right now. And is the next one 76. Correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And that's already in evidence, so why don't you turn that one over. And the next one is 78.
Star Arvizo: 77.
Mr. Sneddon: 77. I'm sorry. I was just checking. Do you recognize that area.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that an accurate depiction of the area as you know it to be.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And 78.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that an accurate depiction of the area as you know it to be.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And 79.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that an accurate depiction of the area as you know it to be.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the next one, I believe, is 94, correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that an accurate depiction of the area as you know it to be.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the next one is 97.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that an accurate depiction of the area.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And then 95.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that an accurate depiction of the area as you know it to be.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And 96.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that an accurate depiction of the area.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Thank you. That's the last one, correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, at this time I was going to propose that we show those photographs to the jury, but I see -- I believe it's close to the break time.
The Court: A few more minutes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you want me to turn out the lights and get started. All right. Fine. I move that all those be admitted into evidence.
The Court: Any objection.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection, Your Honor.
The Court: They're admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. We're now looking at the exhibit marked -- what -- do you have 91 in front of you.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Tell us what 91 is.
Star Arvizo: It's Michael's downstairs bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, do you see anything in that photograph that is different than it was when you were there.
Star Arvizo: That photo wasn't there.
Mr. Sneddon: The photo against the far wall.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Of the child.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Anything else.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Let's move to -- did we establish where this was, 91, in the house.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where is it.
Star Arvizo: It's Michael's downstairs.
Mr. Sneddon: Downstairs to what.
Star Arvizo: Bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, let's move over to 93. Is that 93 that you have in front of you.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. 93, do you recognize that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What is that.
Star Arvizo: That's the downstairs bedroom. Downstairs.
Mr. Sneddon: Is there anything in this part of the photograph that was different from when you were there.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's move to 92. All right. Do you have 92 in front of you.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that the same one that's on the screen.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Is there anything in this photograph that's different from the time when you were there.
Star Arvizo: Or, wait a minute. That isn't right. 92.
Mr. Sneddon: Show me what 92 is.
Star Arvizo: That one's 90.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's go back one, then. The next one. Let me have that for just a second, Star. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Sneddon: It's not in there. Okay. All right.
Mr. Sneddon: 92, I guess we didn't get it into the Power Point. So just do that on your own. Describe to us what 92 is.
Star Arvizo: It's the downstairs of Michael's bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Anything about that photograph, 92, that's different from when you were there.
Star Arvizo: Uhh --
Mr. Sneddon: That's a different photograph. Just tell us.
Star Arvizo: Right next to the T.V. there's -- there used to be, like, a jukebox thing.
Mr. Sneddon: And it's not there now in that photograph.
Star Arvizo: No.
The Court: All right. Let's take our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: And we're going to continue with the photographs. Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Would you tell us what No. 90 is.
Star Arvizo: It's the downstairs of Michael's bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: And is there anything different about this photograph, People's 90, than when you saw it when you were there.
Star Arvizo: Should be, like, the music playing thing, juke box. Where all the boxes were. And that's it.
Mr. Sneddon: Could you show the ladies and gentlemen what area you're talking about. So it's the area right next to the red seat with the child upside down.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: So those boxes weren't there then.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Why don't you turn that photograph over. And let's go to the next one, which should be People's No. 69; is that correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Do you recognize People's 69.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is 69 the same one that's up on the board there behind you.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, tell us what 69 is.
Star Arvizo: It's the downstairs room of Michael's. And that's the master phone, right there. Right there.
Mr. Sneddon: And that's the one you talked about earlier in your testimony.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And just to the left of that is a doorway entrance. Do you know what room that enters into.
Star Arvizo: It enters into, like, a bathtub almost. Bathtub.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And is there anything different in this photograph than when you were there.
Star Arvizo: The extra telephone wasn't there.
Mr. Sneddon: What's that.
Star Arvizo: The extra telephone wasn't there.
Mr. Sneddon: So you're talking about the one that's to the right.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: You see the all-white one on the photograph.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's go to the next photograph, if we can. What is the number in front of you.
Star Arvizo: 55.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Will you tell us about 55.
Star Arvizo: That's the cash register.
Mr. Sneddon: Lean into the microphone, please.
Star Arvizo: That's the cash register, and -- in Michael's room downstairs.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And through the door, what leads through that room.
Star Arvizo: It leads to, like, the Jacuzzi tub.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Do you see anything in that photograph that's different than when you were there.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Let's go to the next photograph, if we could. And is that No. 58.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Do you recognize 58.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell us about 58.
Star Arvizo: That's the inside -- that's --
Mr. Sneddon: Inside of what.
Star Arvizo: Michael's room. Downstairs in the -- it's the room all the way to the left, inside of it.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you have a name for that room.
Star Arvizo: It's probably a bathroom or rest room.
Mr. Sneddon: Did anything occur in this room while you were there.
Star Arvizo: There's a black suitcase.
Mr. Sneddon: What about it.
Star Arvizo: It had pornography in there.
Mr. Sneddon: In this room.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's put that down for just a second. And the next number.
Star Arvizo: 158.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. What's 158.
Star Arvizo: It's a close-up on the master telephone.
Mr. Sneddon: Is this the telephone you were talking about.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes. And is that -- anything different in that photograph than when you were there.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's go to the next one. And what is that.
Star Arvizo: It's the same thing. But different angle.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, can you tell us -- could you just illustrate to the jury, using the laser, if you would, how it worked that somebody could overhear a conversation of another party. First of all, how would you know somebody else is using the phone, to your knowledge.
Star Arvizo: A green light will light up.
Mr. Sneddon: Where would the green light light up. You're indicating on a row of buttons to the -- is that correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And then what would happen when the light would light up. What would you have to do.
Star Arvizo: You would have to push “Speaker”, and then you'll push “Mute”.
Mr. Sneddon: Careful with that razor.
Star Arvizo: And then you'll push “Mute”, and then you'll push on the button that's lit up.
Mr. Sneddon: And then what.
Star Arvizo: And then you can listen to the conversation.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Okay. The next photograph.
Star Arvizo: 71.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes. What is that.
Star Arvizo: This is downstairs, Michael's bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And have you been in that room.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is there anything different about that room, as you look at it now, than when you were there.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Let's go to the next one. What number is that. 78.
Star Arvizo: 72.
Mr. Sneddon: 72. Can't read my own handwriting. Tell me about 72.
Star Arvizo: That's the stairway leading up to Michael's bed area.
Mr. Sneddon: Anything different about that photograph.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Than when you were there.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's move to 74. Do you recognize that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What's that.
Star Arvizo: That's the stairway leading to Michael's bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: Is there anything different in that photograph than when you were there.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What.
Star Arvizo: This wasn't here.
Mr. Sneddon: That little gate.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Anything else.
Star Arvizo: And -- that's it.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. 75. Do you recognize that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Tell us what that is.
Star Arvizo: This is Michael's bed area.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, is there anything in that photograph that's different than when you were there.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry. I didn't hear you.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. All right. Put that one down, then, if you would. 76.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What is that.
Star Arvizo: That's Michael's bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: Is there anything different in this photograph than when you were there.
Star Arvizo: No. Except the crib wasn't there and the computer wasn't there either.
Mr. Sneddon: What are you calling a computer. So the item that's just to the left of the crib.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the crib is in the far right-hand side in the middle of the photograph.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Anything else.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's go to the next photograph, 77. All right. 77. Do you recognize that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell us what it is.
Star Arvizo: That's Michael's bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. You've already told us that the crib and the computer weren't there. Is there anything else different in this photograph that's different than when you were there, in People's 77.
Star Arvizo: All this stuff wasn't here.
Mr. Sneddon: What stuff. You're talking about the items that are on the floor.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: To the right-hand side of the photograph.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: I see in the back, there is what appears to be some kind of a statue or a mannequin of some kind.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you see that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Was that there when you were there.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Was it in that location or in another location.
Star Arvizo: It was in that location.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there anything different about the mannequin when you saw it than when it's depicted in that photograph.
Star Arvizo: It had hair.
Mr. Sneddon: What kind of hair.
Star Arvizo: Braided hair.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's go on to 78. Now, look at that. Is that 78.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: I mean back there.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, anything else in this photograph that you haven't already told us about that was different than from when you were there.
Star Arvizo: There used to be a computer table right here.
Mr. Sneddon: And what about the black part, the -- was that there.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: “No”, what.
Star Arvizo: It wasn't there.
Mr. Sneddon: Anything else.
Star Arvizo: The stuff in front of it, it wasn't there either.
Mr. Sneddon: What stuff in front of it. Could you show the jury. You're indicating the items at the bottom of the photograph on the floor; is that correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, on this particular photograph, there's a screen. What appears to be a screen. Do you see that.
Star Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know how that screen works.
Star Arvizo: It comes down.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know how it comes down; I mean, how you activate it to come down or go up.
Star Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Sneddon: Was that screen down the entire time you were there or was it up on some occasions.
Star Arvizo: It was up on some occasions.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's move on to the next photograph. And that number is.
Star Arvizo: 79.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, 79. Do you see anything in that photograph that's different from when you were there.
Star Arvizo: All this stuff wasn't here.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Show us. So the -- you're indicating from -- was the chair there.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: And the paintings or photos, were they there.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Those are the items at the bottom of the photograph below the screen, correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury that there was a computer table there.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Or a table of some kind.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Could you describe to the ladies and gentlemen of the jury what that table looked like.
Star Arvizo: It had drawers, and then it had an opening.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. How many legs did it have or --
Star Arvizo: Four legs.
Mr. Sneddon: And what was on top of it.
Star Arvizo: A computer.
Mr. Sneddon: What kind of a computer.
Star Arvizo: An old computer. It was pretty big.
Mr. Sneddon: Sorry.
Star Arvizo: It was big.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's move on to the next photograph. What's People's 94.
Star Arvizo: That's a toy room.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Is there anything different about that than when you were there.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: How about the next one. Is that 97.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What about 97. Anything different about that than when you were there.
Star Arvizo: There used to be a rocking horse.
Mr. Sneddon: Where. Right where that pinkish item is.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Just below R2-D2.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Anything else.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. The next photograph, what number is that.
Star Arvizo: 95.
Mr. Sneddon: Anything different about 95.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: How about 96.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: All the same. Anything different.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Why don't you put that up, then. Now, before we move on to the next area, I neglected to do something earlier. We can turn the lights on, Your Honor. Your Honor, I -- oh, Counsel. Okay. I'm going to hand you an exhibit that's part of the exhibit that's already in evidence that's 260, and ask if you recognize that.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize the person in it.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who's that.
Star Arvizo: Me.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you present when the information was filled out on that document.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. I'm going to ask you a few questions about it in just a second. 261, do you recognize that.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Pardon.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize the photograph of the person in that document.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who's that.
Star Arvizo: Me.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you present when the information was filled out.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I'll have to ask you a few questions now. We're going to change over to the Elmo, Your Honor. Now, 261 is an exhibit that's in evidence, Star. With regard to the writing on that particular exhibit, did you place any of that on there at any time.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Underneath your photograph, which is on the left-hand side of that particular exhibit, is that your signature.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: On the area -- do you have your little red thing.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. I'm going to ask you to use it. Straight across from your photograph, all the way over on the right-hand side, there's a box. That box right there, okay. And it says “Italy” and “France”. Did you ever hear anything about you going to Italy or France.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, let's take the next document, which is 261. Now, the photograph, do you recognize the photograph.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who is that.
Star Arvizo: Me.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that your handwriting on that particular document.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you present when that information was filled out.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know what that document is.
Star Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Thank you. We can turn the lights on, Your Honor. Okay. I have another exhibit I'd like to have marked as 470 for identification purposes. There's no edges on it.
The Clerk: Here's another one.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. For the record, Your Honor, 470 is a clear plastic bag with the number “122980” in white on the front of it. And it's been marked 470 for identification. I've shown it to counsel.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me, Your Honor. Could I ask that the prosecutor and the witness be admonished to follow your order with respect to describing the contents.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to show you 470. Recognize that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What is it.
Star Arvizo: This is the suitcase that held all the pornography in it.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; move to strike.
The Court: It's stricken. The pre-trial order requires that you and the witness refer to adult material as “adult material”, not the conclusion.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. I don't even know --
The Court: There are a couple words that you could use.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm not sure he would know any of those words, but I'll -- could I have a second to talk to him about it, then. I didn't know that meant to the witness, because that would be me telling him words, but -- okay. Let me just.... (Whereupon, there was an off-the-record discussion held between the witness and Mr. Sneddon.)
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Where was that exhibit the first time you saw it.
Star Arvizo: It was -- it was in the downstairs, near the bathtub that was like a Jacuzzi. It was near there.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
The Court: Just a minute, Counsel. I want to tell the jury something about our last little discussion, because I don't want to leave this up in the air like that. The -- the reason that the witness and the attorneys are to refer to this material as “adult material” - or there's another word I used, I can't remember now - instead of “pornography”, is that “pornography” really is a legal conclusion that the trier of fact is the person who decides what the nature of the material is. So by having the witness and the attorneys refer to it in a somewhat neutral time frame, it stops any conclusions from being made that would bias the jury. That's the whole purpose. Go ahead, Counsel.
Mr. Sneddon: Who was with you when you saw that suitcase for the first time.
Star Arvizo: Me, my brother, Aldo, and Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: The defendant.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And who -- how was it that you were actually shown that suitcase.
Star Arvizo: Uhh --
Mr. Sneddon: Tell us what happened.
Star Arvizo: Just walked in the room and it was open. It was -- there used to be a couch right there.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah.
Star Arvizo: And -- well, it wasn't really a couch. It was like a chair. And it was on there, and it was open.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And then what happened.
Star Arvizo: Michael just started to show us magazines.
Mr. Sneddon: You say “show” you. Tell us what he did.
Star Arvizo: He handed them to us.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And did you look at them.
Star Arvizo: Yes, with him.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you look at them one at a time or did everybody have a different one at a different time. How did it happen. Tell us what happened.
Star Arvizo: We all looked at them one at a time.
Mr. Sneddon: Did anybody make any comments about anything.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember how many of them you saw.
Star Arvizo: A couple.
Mr. Sneddon: How long was it that you were there going through them.
Star Arvizo: I don't know. Probably ten minutes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when did that take place, when you saw these for the first -- that suitcase for the first time.
Star Arvizo: When.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah.
Star Arvizo: I think after the Calabasas hotel.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, I have one other exhibit that is No. 86 marked for identification purposes. Now, I'm going to show you this in just a second, but I want to talk to you a little bit more. Did you ever see that black suitcase that's been marked as People's 470 before. After that, after the time that you discussed --
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where.
Star Arvizo: It was upstairs in his bed area.
Mr. Sneddon: Where.
Star Arvizo: In his -- where his bed was.
Mr. Sneddon: And where in his bedroom.
Star Arvizo: Near the T.V.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And where were you.
Star Arvizo: What do you mean.
Mr. Sneddon: Where were you in the bedroom.
Star Arvizo: On the bed.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Who was with you.
Star Arvizo: Aldo, my brother and Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was the suitcase located. I mean, how did -- did you ever look at the suitcase, inside of it.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What happened.
Star Arvizo: There was adult material in there.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. But how did it get opened.
Star Arvizo: Michael pulled it out.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Tell us what he did.
Star Arvizo: He picked it up, sat on the bed and opened it.
Mr. Sneddon: And then what.
Star Arvizo: He pulled the magazine out and started showing us.
Mr. Sneddon: How many magazines do you think you saw that time.
Star Arvizo: Four. Three. I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you look through the entire magazines.
Star Arvizo: No. It was probably a section or something like that.
Mr. Sneddon: What did you see in the magazines.
Star Arvizo: Nude females.
Mr. Sneddon: What.
Star Arvizo: Nude females.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember the names of any of the titles of the magazines that you saw.
Star Arvizo: “Barely Legal” and “Playboy”.
Mr. Sneddon: Were there others that you saw besides that, or are those the only ones you saw.
Star Arvizo: Those are the only ones I remember.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to show you a photograph marked as People's 86 for identification purposes. And that's -- first of all, I'm going to move that People's 470 be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: We'll take that up separately.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. People's 86. Do you recognize that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that an accurate depiction of what it represents.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I'm going to ask you some questions about People's 86. And put it on the board, Your Honor. I move it be admitted into evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; and authenticity and relevance.
The Court: On 86.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes. I asked him and he said it accurately depicted the materials.
The Court: I'm not sure. I haven't seen the --
Mr. Sneddon: In your book, it's No. 86, Your Honor --
The Court: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- in your photographs.
Mr. Mesereau: Also 352, Your Honor.
The Court: I don't think that's an adequate foundation for that particular photograph, that it accurately depicts what it is. You need a further foundation.
Mr. Sneddon: Star, the materials that are depicted in that photograph, People's 86, do you see those.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize any of those.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where do you recognize them from.
Star Arvizo: The black suitcase.
Mr. Sneddon: And which time.
Star Arvizo: The first and second time.
Mr. Sneddon: Does that photograph represent the items that you saw with the defendant, Michael Jackson.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: In his bedroom and in his Jacuzzi, or in his bathroom.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: I move it be admitted, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. That is an adequate foundation. Your 352 was on what basis, Counsel.
Mr. Mesereau: He didn't identify some of what's in that photograph, Your Honor, at all.
The Court: I found that the foundation is adequate now. You had a 352 objection.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
The Court: What was that.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, basically because he didn't identify it, and because after describing what he said was there, and then looking at the photo and saying it accurately depicts it, he didn't identify everything, I think basically it's prejudicial and irrelevant.
The Court: All right. The probative value exceeds the prejudicial --
The Defendant: I can't hear.
The Court: It's admitted.
The Defendant: I can't hear you.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, it's a little hard for Mr. Jackson to hear you.
The Defendant: Please speak up.
The Court: Yes. The probative value of Exhibit 86 exceeds any prejudicial effects, and so it's admitted.
The Defendant: Thank you.
The Court: Sorry.
Mr. Sneddon: Star, the exhibit that we have on the board up there, the suitcase, and it's open and displayed, are those among the items that you saw with Mr. Jackson.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do they represent the things that you saw with him when he took the magazines out.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. On the occasion that you saw the materials from this suitcase that are depicted in this photograph - okay. - who else was present.
Star Arvizo: My brother and Aldo, me, and Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall how many -- how much time elapsed between the first time you saw the materials downstairs till the time you saw them upstairs.
Star Arvizo: A few days.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you see how the suitcase got from downstairs to upstairs.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: When you saw the suitcase in the bedroom, upstairs, on the second occasion, was it open or was it closed.
Star Arvizo: It was open.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was it on the floor, or where was it in the room.
Star Arvizo: On the floor.
Mr. Sneddon: And where.
Star Arvizo: Right next to the T.V.
Mr. Sneddon: So when you say “it's open”, tell me what you mean by “it's open”.
Star Arvizo: It was cracked.
Mr. Sneddon: What do you mean by that.
Star Arvizo: It was cracked open.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you see the briefcase in the exhibit as we see it in the courtroom.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Was it open in that condition.
Star Arvizo: No. No.
Mr. Sneddon: Was the lid up or down when you saw it in the bedroom.
Star Arvizo: It was -- it was like this, standing up. And it was cracked open.
Mr. Sneddon: Oh, the briefcase.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Oh, I see. So it wasn't in the same position that it's shown in this photograph.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, how about when you saw it downstairs.
Star Arvizo: It was like that, but it was closed.
Mr. Sneddon: Like what.
Star Arvizo: Standing straight up, but it was closed, leaning up against something.
Mr. Sneddon: In the bathroom area.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And how did it get opened.
Star Arvizo: What do you mean.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, you said it was closed. You looked at the material --
Star Arvizo: The first time it was closed. The second time it was cracked open.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. We can take that down.
The Bailiff: Do you want to go ahead and push “Black Screen”.
Mr. Sneddon: Counsel.
The Bailiff: Judge, can you push “Black Screen”.
Mr. Sneddon: Hang onto that for just a second. All right. Do you recognize the photograph I've just handed you, which is People's 153. Is that the right number on it.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Do you recognize that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that an accurate depiction of the -- of what it purports to represent.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: As you saw it when you were there.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I move that 153 be admitted into evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection, Your Honor.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Star, would you tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury what 153 is.
Star Arvizo: It's a mannequin.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was the mannequin located in the room when you saw it.
Star Arvizo: To the corner.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to this particular mannequin, did you ever see anything, relative to the defendant in this case, occur.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury what you saw.
Star Arvizo: He was -- one time -- he was jerking around and he grabbed the mannequin, and he was pretending like he was having intercourse with it.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did that occur.
Star Arvizo: On the bed. He was fully clothed. He was acting like he was humping.
Mr. Sneddon: I didn't hear what you said.
Star Arvizo: He was acting like he was humping it.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, who else was in the bedroom when this happened.
Star Arvizo: Aldo, my brother and me.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember how this -- how it started or what happened, or were there --
Star Arvizo: I don't even remember. I'm sorry.
Mr. Sneddon: Did the defendant say anything while he was doing it.
Star Arvizo: He was laughing.
Mr. Sneddon: And how long did the whole episode last.
Star Arvizo: Probably five seconds.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Do you want to put that down. Star, did you -- can you tell us whether or not the topic of masturbation ever came up in any conversations with the defendant.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Judge, “whether or not” makes it an open-ended question. It doesn't suggest the answer. I don't mean to argue with the Court, but I mean --
Mr. Mesereau: It does not, Your Honor. That's leading.
The Court: Could you rephrase the question.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, Your Honor. I can do that.
Mr. Sneddon: Star, did you ever have any conversations with the defendant about any other sexual matters.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: About what.
Star Arvizo: Masturbation.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Will you tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury --
Star Arvizo: I don't know how the topic came about, but he was asking me if I ever masturbated. And I said, “No”. And he said --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. There's no question pending. He just went off.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: I'll frame one, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So did you have a conversation.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, would you tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury, where was it.
Star Arvizo: It was -- this was when another child was here. His name was Rio.
Mr. Sneddon: I can't hear you.
Star Arvizo: This was in Michael's bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: And who else was present, if anyone.
Star Arvizo: Rio, my brother, and that was it. And me.
Mr. Sneddon: And to your knowledge, who is Rio.
Star Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: Somebody you met at Mr. Jackson's.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall when this was in terms of before or after you went to Calabasas.
Star Arvizo: It was after.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall whether it was in the daytime or at nighttime.
Star Arvizo: Nighttime.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Would you tell us what was said, what the defendant said.
Star Arvizo: He asked me if I masturbated. And I said, “No”. He -- he -- then he said to me that, “Everyone does it. You should try it. It's okay”, and all this stuff.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you the only one he asked that question of.
Star Arvizo: Yes. Well, yeah. Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you said, “No”, did he say anything else.
Star Arvizo: Yeah. He said, “It's okay”, and “Everyone does it”, and “You should try it”. That's what he said.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there anything else said besides that.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you -- when you came back from Calabasas --
Star Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: -- okay. - till the time that you left - all right. - where did you sleep.
Star Arvizo: In Michael's room. And towards the end, I slept in the guest unit.
Mr. Sneddon: And was there any drinking that went on during that period of time.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And who was drinking.
Star Arvizo: Mostly my brother and Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: You say “mostly”. Did you drink.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: On the occasion that you were there with -- in the room with Mr. Jackson and your brother, and this person that you know -- is it Rio.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- were you drinking then.
Star Arvizo: I think so.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember what you were drinking.
Star Arvizo: Just wine.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, on the evenings after you came back from Calabasas and until you stopped sleeping in Mr. Jackson's room, where did your brother sleep.
Star Arvizo: Michael's room.
Mr. Sneddon: During that period of time, was there an incident where you saw Mr. Jackson come into bed with you and your brother.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Star Arvizo: Yes. I was --
Mr. Sneddon: Just -- just -- you can only answer “Yes” or “No”.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, you said there was an incident. Where were you prior to the time that Mr. Jackson came into the room.
Star Arvizo: Sleeping.
Mr. Sneddon: Where.
Star Arvizo: On the bed.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was your brother.
Star Arvizo: Right next to me.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. We've seen that bed here in the photographs. Okay.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: And when we're looking straight at the bed towards the back of the wall - okay. - where were you located on the bed.
Star Arvizo: All the way to the right.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was your brother.
Star Arvizo: In the middle.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you under the covers.
Star Arvizo: Under the covers.
Mr. Sneddon: Over the covers.
Star Arvizo: Under the covers.
Mr. Sneddon: And how were you dressed.
Star Arvizo: In PJ's.
Mr. Sneddon: Do these PJ's -- describe them.
Star Arvizo: Sweat pants.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Star Arvizo: Sweat pants and a shirt.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And do you recall what your brother was wearing.
Star Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you see -- tell us what happened.
Star Arvizo: I was sleeping. It was in the morning. And I saw Michael come up, and I tried to say hi, but I couldn't. He got in bed. Started scooting over closer and closer to my brother. And for a time he didn't stop until I moved, and then he stopped.
Mr. Sneddon: And what happened when he heard you move.
Star Arvizo: He stopped.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Did you see whether or not he did anything.
Star Arvizo: No. I was -- no.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Okay. Star, we're almost done. Okay. Now, some night when you were at -- at the ranch - all right. - did you go up to Mr. Jackson's bedroom by yourself.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where had you been just prior to that.
Star Arvizo: I was heading to the theater.
Mr. Sneddon: Where.
Star Arvizo: I was heading to the theater.
Mr. Sneddon: Why were you going to the theater.
Star Arvizo: To get some chocolate.
Mr. Sneddon: How did you get down there.
Star Arvizo: The golf cart.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you get some chocolate.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did you do when you came back.
Star Arvizo: I was heading to Michael's room to go to sleep.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Would you tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury what you did when you got to the house.
Star Arvizo: Um, I went through the door.
Mr. Sneddon: Which door.
Star Arvizo: The first door. The first door. And then the second door, it was kind of -- I don't know, it was, like, kind of locked. And so I pushed on it till it opened, and then --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection, Your Honor. Could we have a time. Vague as to time.
The Court: Overruled. Go ahead.
Star Arvizo: So I went upstairs, and --
Mr. Sneddon: Let's go back. You were at the door, and the door what.
Star Arvizo: The door was kind of locked, so I pushed it, and it opened. So I went halfway to where the computer table used to be, and I saw directly into the bed. And I stopped. And my brother was outside of the covers. And I saw Michael's left hand in my brother's underwears and I saw his right hand in his underwears, so -- so I --
Mr. Sneddon: Let's just stop there for a second - okay --.
Star Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- and ask you some questions. Why were you coming back to the room that night, after you'd gone down to get the chocolate.
Star Arvizo: To go to sleep.
Mr. Sneddon: When you got to the point on the stairs where you saw your brother and Mr. Jackson on the bed - okay. - when you're looking at the bed, just like we saw it on the photograph here - what side of the bed was the defendant on.
Star Arvizo: Left side.
Mr. Sneddon: And what side was your brother on.
Star Arvizo: Right side.
Mr. Sneddon: And what position was Mr. Jackson in.
Star Arvizo: On his back. On his back.
Mr. Sneddon: And what position was your brother in.
Star Arvizo: He was curled up, looking to the left. He was curled up facing left.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, would that be looking towards Mr. Jackson or away from Mr. Jackson.
Star Arvizo: Away.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at that time, could you see what the defendant was wearing.
Star Arvizo: Socks, underwears and an undershirt.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, could you tell what kind of underwear it was.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: I mean -- I'm sorry.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to your brother, what was he wearing.
Star Arvizo: I can't quite remember what he was wearing. I'm not --
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember what you could see of him. Was there part of him that he didn't have anything on.
Star Arvizo: Yeah, I know he had a shirt and -- he had his socks. I think he had pants or underwears on. I don't remember.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, you said you saw “his hand”. Whose hands are you talking about.
Star Arvizo: Michael's.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And where were his hands.
Star Arvizo: Left hand was in my brother's pants and right hand was in his pants.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. You may proceed.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you say “in his pants”, and who are you talking about.
Star Arvizo: Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. When you saw that, did you see what, if anything, he was doing.
Star Arvizo: He was masturbating.
Mr. Sneddon: What do you mean by that.
Star Arvizo: He was rubbing himself.
Mr. Sneddon: And how could you tell that.
Star Arvizo: Because he had his hand in his pants. And he was stroking up and down.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see anything else about the defendant while he was doing that.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: What else did you see.
Star Arvizo: That's all.
Mr. Sneddon: Could you tell whether Mr. Jackson had his eyes open or closed.
Star Arvizo: He had his eyes closed.
Mr. Sneddon: Could you tell whether or not your brother was asleep or not.
Star Arvizo: He was asleep.
Mr. Sneddon: How do you know that.
Star Arvizo: Because he was kind of snoring.
Mr. Sneddon: I can't hear you. You're going to have to talk into that mike.
Star Arvizo: He was kind of snoring.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, on this particular occasion, how long did you stay there watching.
Star Arvizo: Couple seconds.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, how long is that.
Star Arvizo: Four.
Mr. Sneddon: What were the lighting conditions like in the room.
Star Arvizo: The stairs were only lit, and the rest was -- nothing else was -- had lights on. It was just the stairs had lights.
Mr. Sneddon: So you saw the photographs earlier that we showed that had the lights on over the bed, correct.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Were those lights on or off.
Star Arvizo: Off.
Mr. Sneddon: When you looked into the room, did you see any alcohol.
Star Arvizo: Um --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Star Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Sneddon: So what was your reaction to what you saw.
Star Arvizo: I didn't know what to do.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Star Arvizo: I didn't know what to do. I just went back to the guest units where my sister was sleeping.
Mr. Sneddon: What guest room did you stay in.
Star Arvizo: I don't remember. But my sister was sleeping in one guest room. And I went to the one that she was in.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see anything like that occur on any other occasion.
Star Arvizo: Yes, a second occasion.
Mr. Sneddon: When.
Star Arvizo: It was probably just driving around; and same thing.
Mr. Sneddon: No, I meant in relationship to the first one. How many days, if any, elapsed.
Star Arvizo: Two days.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Where were you that night.
Star Arvizo: Probably driving around in the golf cart. And I came back --
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you say “probably”. Do you remember.
Star Arvizo: Not really what I was doing.
Mr. Sneddon: Pardon.
Star Arvizo: I don't really remember what I was doing.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
Star Arvizo: I'm not sure. Walking in, the door wasn't locked. The door was closed but it wasn't locked. I went upstairs. The same thing was happening, but my brother was on his back as well.
Mr. Sneddon: You say “the same thing was happening”. Tell me what was happening.
Star Arvizo: My brother was asleep. Michael was masturbating while he had his left hand in my brother's underwears.
Mr. Sneddon: And what kind of underwear was your brother wearing.
Star Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you said you saw the defendant masturbating, were the -- where were they on the bed. What were the positions of the people on the bed on this occasion. If you're looking at the bed, who was on the left.
Star Arvizo: Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: And who was on the right.
Star Arvizo: Gavin.
Mr. Sneddon: And you said that you saw him masturbating again. What did you actually see occurring.
Star Arvizo: What.
Mr. Sneddon: The defendant, what did you see him doing.
Star Arvizo: Masturbating. Stroking up and down.
Mr. Sneddon: Where.
Star Arvizo: In -- his thing. His private area.
Mr. Sneddon: Could you see what the other hand was doing.
Star Arvizo: Moving. It was -- I don't know how to explain it.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, can you just show us what you saw.
Star Arvizo: It was going like that (Indicating).
Mr. Sneddon: And that's the hand that was where.
Star Arvizo: In my brother's underwears.
Mr. Sneddon: So just for the record, just sort of got a fist and opening it up and sort of like that.
Star Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Doesn't help any, does it. Sort of like semi closing and opening the hand.
Mr. Sneddon: And the second time, how long did you stay.
Star Arvizo: Three seconds. It was less than the first time.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you go.
Star Arvizo: Back to my sister's guest unit.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever tell your -- let me -- from the point that you were -- you went back to the guest unit and you were still on the ranch, did you ever tell your sister what you saw.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Who was the first person that you told what you saw.
Star Arvizo: Dr. Katz.
Mr. Sneddon: You never told your mother.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Or your brother.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: On the second occasion, what was Mr. Jackson wearing, if anything.
Star Arvizo: Socks, underwears and an undershirt.
Mr. Sneddon: And your brother.
Star Arvizo: Uhh --
Mr. Sneddon: You already told us what's on the bottom. Was he wearing anything on the top.
Star Arvizo: Yes, he was wearing an undershirt.
Mr. Sneddon: What.
Star Arvizo: Well, he was wearing a shirt.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did you go to sleep that night, on the second incident.
Star Arvizo: My sister's guest unit.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at some point while you were at Neverland Ranch - okay. - did an incident -- well, let me go back. Let's go back. Does your brother, because of his condition with cancer, have to go to the doctor regularly.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when he goes to the doctor regularly, what does he have to do.
Star Arvizo: A urine sample. Blood sample. He has to go to the kidney specialist. He has to go to two different doctors. I don't know what they do.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, in preparation for his visits to the doctor - okay. - you said he had -- something to do with urine. Does he have to collect that before he goes.
Star Arvizo: Sometimes he -- the doctors would send home a bottle for him to fill up and then bring back.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember an occasion while you were at the ranch that he had to go to the doctor and take a urine sample with him.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you present when he and Mr. Jackson discussed that.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; and foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you present at any time.
Star Arvizo: (Shakes head from side to side.)
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Did you see what happened to the urine sample.
Star Arvizo: No. But I heard about it.
Mr. Sneddon: No, I know. I just want to know what your -- the night before your -- did you know when your brother left for the medical appointment.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And that night before that, were you with him.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Pardon.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Not at all.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Where were you.
Star Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see him leave in the morning.
Star Arvizo: No, I was probably still asleep.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you describe the container. Let me go back. Did you see the container on the occasion that he was going to the doctor while he was at the ranch.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was it when you saw it.
Star Arvizo: Where was the bottle.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah.
Star Arvizo: It was in the guest units.
Mr. Sneddon: When your brother came back from that appointment, were you there.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: You weren't on the ranch when -- did you see him when he came driving up.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: When did you first see your brother after he went to the doctor's appointment.
Star Arvizo: I don't remember. Probably later that night.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know how long he was gone.
Star Arvizo: Probably about six hours.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know whether or not your brother was with him when he came back.
Star Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: Did -- was your sister at the ranch while he was gone.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: So you and your sister were there.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: You don't remember what you did that day at all.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, at this point, after this, did you at some time eventually leave the ranch for the last time.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember how many days or when it was in relationship to this appointment that your brother went to the doctor's for.
Star Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, was it a long time, a short time, a --
Star Arvizo: A short time. A short time.
Mr. Sneddon: What makes you think that.
Star Arvizo: I don't know. It was --
Mr. Sneddon: Is that just a guess.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Take a minute and think about it.
Star Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And how was it that you learned that you were going to leave the ranch.
Star Arvizo: I heard from -- I think it was from my sister, that my grandfather was ill. Well, they said my grandfather was ill, but he wasn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Narrative; nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. You learned it from whom.
Star Arvizo: I learned of it from my sister.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And what did you learn.
Star Arvizo: That my grandfather was ill.
Mr. Sneddon: Was that true.
Star Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did your sister tell you that.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: So when you heard that, then what did you do.
Star Arvizo: I thought he was ill, so I wanted to go home.
Mr. Sneddon: And did the three of you leave.
Star Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And how did you get from -- from there to -- where did you go.
Star Arvizo: We went to our grandma's house.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever go back to the ranch after that.
Star Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Sneddon: And who was it that left that day.
Star Arvizo: Left home.
Mr. Sneddon: Who was with you when you left.
Star Arvizo: My brother, sister and me.
Mr. Sneddon: Judge, I have about five more minutes. I don't know if you want to keep going or you want to --
The Court: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
The Court: It's 2:30. We'll end the session today. I want to tell you, tomorrow, remember, we're going to have a shorter session. We're going to start at 8:30, and we're going to end at 11:30. I'll tell you that so that you can make your plans for tomorrow. I was a little vague about when we were going to end last week, but I think the best time is at our normal break, and we'll just end for the morning. And then we'll start again on Wednesday with the regular schedule. See you tomorrow. Remember the admonition.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:30 p.m.
