Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Tuesday, March 1, 2005 8:30 a.m.
The Court: Good morning.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor. Good morning.
The Court: Mr. Mesereau.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor. Good morning.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
Mr. Mesereau: Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, I would like to clarify some statements I made yesterday, correct a couple of statements, and talk a little bit more about a few other things I mentioned. First of all, the prosecutor, in his opening statement, made an allegation that Mr. Jackson had intentionally, knowingly provided alcohol to a child on a flight from Florida. You will learn in the trial that on that private flight were Mr. Jackson, two of his children, his physician, security personnel, and other guests, as well as the Arvizos. And you will hear from his physician that he was in a seat on that plane where he could see everything and never slept. And he never saw anything like this so-called licking that the prosecutor described. But in that regard, you need to understand that the charges in this case involving alcohol are not charges like a bartender giving an underaged kid alcohol. The charges are that Mr. Jackson gave alcohol for the purpose of molesting. The alcohol charge is directly tied into allegations of molestation. One doesn't exist without the other in those alcohol charges. And Mr. Jackson absolutely denies that. In that regard, we will prove to you, through witnesses, people who worked at and visited Neverland, that the Arvizo kids, at times, were out of control, broke into the wine cellar, were caught drinking alcohol themselves, without Mr. Jackson even being present or knowing about it. They also were caught breaking into the refrigerator in the kitchen, drinking alcohol, and they were caught grabbing alcohol from a cupboard. There is one witness who will tell that you Mr. Jackson ordered some alcohol for he and guests and the children stole it. They were caught intoxicated. They were caught with bottles. Mr. Jackson was nowhere around. We will prove to you that they are now trying to say that he was behind all of this. And it's false. We also will prove to you that the Arvizo children, as I said before, initially seemed very well behaved, but that changed. And it changed radically. For example, there are workers who are in charge of the amusement rides. There is a ferris wheel. There are other carousels that children, when they visit Neverland, ride on and play on. One of the workers in charge of those rides will tell you that he's not sure how this happened, but they appeared to have memorized the codes to start those rides. And he was shocked and horrified to find the kids on a ferris wheel up at the top throwing objects at elephants and people. They also, we will prove, did that with various codes in the house. They somehow found a way to roam around the house at will when Mr. Jackson wasn't even in town and were actually caught in his room. Those witnesses will testify to those facts. They were out of control. The prosecutor told you that there were girlie-type magazines and sexually explicit material in Mr. Jackson's home, and there were. Mr. Jackson will freely admit that he does read girlie magazines from time to time. And what he does is he sends someone to the local market, and they pick up Playboy and they pick up Hustler, and he has read them from time to time. He absolutely denies showing them to children. And, in fact, the magazines the prosecutor referred to were in a locked briefcase. And Mr. Jackson will tell you he found those kids going through his magazines, and grabbed them from him and locked them in his briefcase. That will be proven at trial. I want to emphasize that Mr. Jackson was paid nothing from Bashir. The original negotiations were that money would go to charities in England. They were talking about 250,000 pounds, British pounds they are. That, from Mr. Jackson's point of view, the incentive for doing that documentary was that he trusted Mr. Bashir was going to present him in an appropriate and honorable and honest light. And that's not what happened. Yesterday, I mentioned Mrs. Arvizo, while she said she was falsely imprisoned, going for a body wax treatment. I checked the receipt, and I mistakenly said February 14th. It's February 11th, for the body wax. What is particularly significant about that, other than the fact that it's hard to believe while you're being falsely imprisoned you're going for a local body wax. The significance is this: She, at her own request, was driven from Neverland to a salon. She was gone for about three hours. She was left at the salon alone. She was there for over an hour getting a treatment, when she says she was falsely imprisoned and couldn't communicate with anyone. That is the significance and that is absurd. On that particular day, some very odd things happened. Her boyfriend and now her husband, as I mentioned, was a Major Jay Jackson, who's in the Army Reserve, and he was making approximately $8,000 a month while she was accepting welfare. And he was allowing her to deposit her welfare checks into his account. And as I said to you yesterday, she was not disclosing his income or support in any of her requests for public assistance, which were under oath. On that particular day, Major Jackson spoke to her on the phone, and something strange happened. In between the body waxes and whatever else she was doing at Neverland, she claims and he claims that she said she had trouble at Neverland and that he called 9-1-1. But when he told her that he had called 9-1-1, she said, “I'm not having trouble. We don't need 9-1-1”. So the opportunity to call 9-1-1, to call the police, to call the military police, was always there. She says she was kept from these people during all of this false imprisonment by some conspiracy she claims was engineered by Michael Jackson. And that's false. On that note, we will prove to you, ladies and gentlemen, that during the period she says she was falsely imprisoned, she had access to the Los Angeles Police Department, and was, in fact, in contact with police officers in the Los Angeles Police Department who she associated with, and never raised an issue about false imprisonment. She was in contact with Major Jay Jackson, who also had access to the military police, and no complaint was made. She went to a federal building in Los Angeles to get a passport for the trip to Brazil. That federal building was loaded with federal employees, federal agents. Nobody was told there was a problem. She had access to the Department of Children & Family Services in Los Angeles because they interviewed her. Where. At Jay Jackson's home. Did she complain, “We're being falsely imprisoned. We're being abducted. We're being pressured. We're being defrauded. My children are at risk”. No, never. All of this during the period that the prosecutor says the family was being abducted, falsely imprisoned, children were being harmed, et cetera. I told you yesterday that Michael Jackson flat out denies these molestation allegations. They are false. Now, the prosecutor told you that Ms. Arvizo and her children will come in and say there was molestation. They gave you this lurid discussion of masturbation and things of that sort. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the jury, the Santa Barbara Sheriffs raided Neverland. Approximately 70 officers showed up --
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me, Counsel. I'm going to object as argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Ladies and gentlemen, the Arvizo children's DNA was never found in Mr. Jackson's bedroom after searching and testing. Their DNA isn't there. Because the molestation claims are fiction. I did mention yesterday that Mr. Jackson owns approximately a million book. He does, but I think I may have suggested that they were all in his house. Actually, a lot of them are in storage. So I want to make sure that's clear. But he is a voracious reader and book collector. I also indicated to you that the prosecutors initially had filed a Complaint against Mr. Jackson alleging that molestation had occurred, based on what the Arvizos told them before the Arvizos did the rebuttal tape praising Michael Jackson saying he never did anything wrong. And you'll see it in the trial. And also before they were interviewed by the Los Angeles Department of Children & Family Services where they repeated their absolute denials that he'd ever done anything wrong. They did nothing but praise him to the hilt. And what I said to you was after the reality of those statements set in, the prosecutors changed the dates of the alleged molestation and now they're supposed to have occurred after those interviews. And as I said to you, this is a time when the media and Mr. Sneddon's investigating, and everybody is talking about this Bashir documentary, and the networks are coming out to see if they can vie for the ability to do a rebuttal tape. This is when they're claiming these acts of molestation occurred. They didn't. Now, Mr. Sneddon, the prosecutor, said to you, “Janet Arvizo doesn't want money. She's not doing this for money”. Well, we will prove to you the following: As I said yesterday, when she allegedly learned of these molestation claims, she didn't go to the police, she went to a lawyer. And I just mentioned to you that she was in touch with various members of the Los Angeles Police Department during this period of so-called false imprisonment, this period of a so-called conspiracy by Michael Jackson and his associates. One of those police officers will testify that Janet said to him, “Something big is happening, and I got a lawyer”. That's number one. Number two, as I said to you yesterday, she realized at some point that going to a lawyer first doesn't look too good. And that's when she began to claim that she learned about it from the police, not the lawyers. The problem is, that the lawyers are the ones who eventually went to the police. So you'll have to figure that one out. Janet Arvizo told the Santa Barbara Sheriffs in one of her interviews, “You know, my kids have till the age of 18 to file civil suits”. And she was correct, because someone underage who has a claim is not held to what is called a statute of limitations the way adults are. A statute of limitations, as many of you know, is a certain period of time you have to sue if you have a claim, or your claim gets stale. It gets thrown out, because they don't want -- basically the law says that people can't go sitting around forever waiting to file claims, or the whole system would be chaotic. So the statutes of limitation have been defined by the legislature. And they give time periods during which somebody can sue. For her children, the alleged victims of molestation, they have till 18. And she told that to the police, just as she told the police that she had hired lawyers. Why did she tell that to the police. And why in her police interviews, as we will prove, did she repeatedly say, “I need money, I want money”, or words to that effect. Ladies and gentlemen, we will prove to you the relationship between a criminal prosecution and a civil claim for damages based upon the same type of alleged conduct. What am I referring to. I think some of you know this already, but we're going to prove it to you anyway. Here's what it is: There is what is called a burden of proof in a criminal case; and that is, you must prove beyond a reasonable doubt the allegations are true and that the defendant's guilty. In a civil case what is called the burden of proof is lighter. It's easier. It's called preponderance of the evidence.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to this.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Ladies and gentlemen, we will prove that Janet and her children are using this case to win a civil case.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to that as argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: We will also prove that her lawyer, Larry Feldman, who the prosecutor acknowledged had sued Mr. Jackson a long time ago, a lawyer very well known in Beverly Hills, California, we will prove to you that this lawyer was having lunch with CNN talk show host Larry King and told him, “She wants money”. Ladies and gentlemen, the prosecutor yesterday alleged that acts of molestation occurred during certain dates. We will prove to you that most of those dates, not all of them, but most of them, Michael Jackson wasn't even near Neverland. Based upon our investigation, we can find four approximate dates where he was at Neverland. But a lot of the dates you heard the prosecutor identify, he isn't even near the place. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to talk to you a little bit about these conspiracy allegations, particularly as they relate to the so-called co-conspirators that Mr. Jackson is supposed to be aligning with for the purpose of committing felonies. The first thing you need to know is what they're saying is that Mr. Jackson committed crimes by agreeing with others to commit crimes, so-called co-conspirators. And the prosecutor identified who those co-conspirators are supposed to be. And indeed, in the charging document, Judge Melville read you their names. Schaffel, Dieter, Konitzer, Cascio, Amen. You know that none of them have been charged. Do you know that the only one they charged with conspiracy is Michael Jackson.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as argumentative.
The Court: Counsel, it is really -- the way you're saying what you're saying is argumentative form of -- you're not saying, “We're going to prove this, we're going to prove that”.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Thank you, Your Honor. We will prove to you that none of those so-called co-conspirators have been charged with any crime. The only one these government prosecutors have pointed out is Mr. Jackson when it comes to these conspiracy allegations. As I said to you yesterday, Mr. Jackson has a certain lifestyle and presence that attracts all kinds of people on a continual basis who seek to profit at his expense. It's an ongoing problem. It's an ongoing issue. He is one of the world's best known megastars. He's known as a musical genius, one of the greatest in the world. And he's known around the world as someone who's made lots of money. This is the reputation people come to him with and they want to profit from it. And you can just guess at the characters who show up trying to get their nose under the tent with an idea. An idea for a concert --
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object again as argumentative.
Mr. Mesereau: I will -- I will change that, Your Honor.
The Court: Rephrase it.
Mr. Mesereau: We will prove to you that Mr. Jackson, because of his presence around the world in the music industry, continually attracts people who seek to profit. We will prove to you, ladies and gentlemen, that this creates a problem in his life. And here is the problem we'll prove to you exists: Mr. Jackson is an artist. That is what his primary work is. He's an artist. He is called a musical genius. He is a creative person who dances to a creative drummer. Mr. Jackson was interviewed by Mr. Bashir about how he lives, how he feels, and how he works. And among other things, he responded to Mr. Bashir's questions along those lines. He said, “I have to be inspired. I can't wake up each day and say, 'You know, today I have a goal. I'm going to create music. I'm going to create choreography. I'm going to create a video. I'm going to find the message. I'm going to translate it into music and choreography. This is what I'm going to do today'”. He told Mr. Bashir, “I can't do that. That's not the way it works. I have to be inspired. I don't know when I'm going to be inspired. I have to make myself open for inspiration in order to do the kind of work I do”. And to do that, he has to live a certain way. For example, Mr. Bashir expressed surprise when he said to him, “I have a tree on my property. And lots of times I go up and I sit in the tree alone. And I'm peaceful and I'm still, and I meditate. And very often God gives me that creative spark that I need to do the work that I excel in”. We will prove to you that Mr. Jackson will often wake up at 3:00 in the morning at Neverland. He will walk out of his house alone, and he will take a walk alone under the stars, under the moon, under the sky. He will meditate in his own way, and wait for ideas and inspiration to come. And he often says when it comes to dance or music, “I can't think my way to the result. It has to come to me, and I have to feel it”. This is his lifestyle, we will prove. And one of the problems, we will prove, is that if you're going to be that kind of a creative genius, it doesn't always leave time to sit down with lawyers and accountants and business advisors on a regular basis. In fact, he has said, “When I spend time in those areas, I create less”. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen. It means he's vulnerable to being taken advantage of financially and legally. And we will have witnesses tell you, they have observed him presented with documents, and he signs them without reading them. And these types of behavior -- this type of behavior has caused problems in the past for him. But he is the creative spirit he is, and he has to live the way he lives. And he doesn't live like a criminal, as they have told you. At one point, a number of individuals approached him, were able to actually get face to face with him and convince him that they could help him out with his affairs. Of course, this has been going on for years. This has been going on, we will prove to you, since he was a child. Because he began performing at the age of five. And by the age of eight was being recognized for his genius and his talent. That's an early age. And he was, and his family, were working with studios like Motown, where they got a big break. And as part of the business of music, they were told, “We have publicists, press people, agents, managers. They will tell you what to say. Image is business. Image is critical. You can't just walk out there and freely discuss your feelings, your life, what you do, what you like or don't like. We'll tell you what to say, and you'll say it”. And things like personal habits, personal fears, personal idiosyncrasies, were hidden, because, after all, this was big business. You heard the names Konitzer and Dieter. They did arrive, and they did claim they were going to somehow rescue Michael Jackson from this world of charlatans and profiteers, and would-be do-gooders with a hand in his pocket. They also revealed who they were during the course of his experience with them. The prosecutor would have you believe that Mr. Jackson was somehow involved with these people on a daily basis, getting all kinds of information from them and knew everything they were doing. He did not.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as argumentative.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: He didn't. This is what Dieter and Konitzer were planning to do with regard to Mr. Jackson: Now, as for his involvement, referring to Michael Jackson, Michael is an entertainer and not a businessman. He does not like business. He does not care about any formalities, proper procedures, detailed briefings, et cetera. Any one of those elements kills his creative energy. He wants to stay out of that. That is the reason why he gave us an extensive power of attorney. Do you know what a power of attorney is, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sure some of you do. Maybe you all do. It's giving away to somebody an ability to sign for your affairs and represent you in signing things and doing things from a legal point of view. It's a very serious act when you give someone a power of attorney. But they got one out of Michael. They said further, “His intention was definitely not being bothered with signatures here and there, every other day, and with personal meetings with each and every member of the team. We realized that some might feel insulted, but it's not personal. Signatures and meetings with Michael will, in general, not happen. Only in very special cases, exceptions will be made”. We will prove to you that these so-called business advisors made a concerted effort to keep Michael Jackson away from a lot of what they were trying to do on his behalf and to control his affairs, particularly the music business. On January 11th, 2003, this is what one of them wrote: “Yes, I and Mr. Weizner, whom you met in Las Vegas, are authorized to engage you. We shall gain control of financial affairs, records, documents, agreements, and also operations, anything else belonging to Michael Jackson in their possession or control”. They identified two phases of activity they were going to pursue: One, take-over. Two, cleanup operation, clean up old business. And they said they were going to create what they called “The Michael Jackson Universe”. This was their business proposal for managing and controlling all of Michael Jackson's business, while he spent his time creating and writing and choreographing and the things he loves to do. We will prove to you that, unlike what you were told, he didn't know a lot of things they were doing, because they intended that he not know what they were doing. And they weren't telling him a lot of what was going on. We will also prove to you that a lawyer named David LeGrand was, at one time, retained to help Mr. Jackson. David LeGrand had been a securities law prosecutor. As a securities law prosecutor, we will prove that he had prosecuted people for financial crimes, stock fraud, not following proper procedures and disclosures if you're selling stock or securities. Things of that sort. David LeGrand began to smell that something was wrong, and he confronted Dieter and Konitzer with his suspicions, even writing to them and saying, “Why are you withdrawing money. Who told you to do that. Who gave you permission. Where's it going. What are you doing with it”. They then were able to convince Michael Jackson to fire LeGrand. But before that happened, David LeGrand commenced an investigation into the activities of these alleged co-conspirators, Dieter, Konitzer, Schaffel and others. He hired a top-flight investigative firm in New York to check out their backgrounds, to check out what they were doing, to see if they were hiding things overseas, to see if Mr. Jackson was being, as he said, defrauded, and to see if they were engaging in acts as what he described as self-dealing. But they were able to get to Michael and stop the investigation by getting him to fire LeGrand, because they convinced him that LeGrand was doing something wrong. An investigative report was prepared. It wasn't completed, but it was prepared. It was printed and it was given to Mr. LeGrand. Marc Schaffel, the prosecutor told you that Mr. Jackson was a partner in his business. We will prove to you he was never a partner in his business. Marc Schaffel was a film producer who had met Mr. Jackson in the early '90s. And at one point Mr. Jackson said he wanted nothing to do with him. That was in writing from his attorneys. Marc Schaffel, like so many others, wanted to do business with Mr. Jackson. And typically, as we will prove, when people are on the outs, they band with other people on the outs and look for a way to get back in. They look for a way to glom onto somebody who has Mr. Jackson's ear during the limited time he has to deal with these things. And Mr. Schaffel came forward with a proposal that a rebuttal show be done with FOX. Mr. Schaffel travels to Brazil all the time. Mr. Schaffel has friends in Brazil and production facilities in Brazil. And Mr. Schaffel convinced Janet Arvizo that she should come to Brazil, because Michael Jackson was going to be with them in Brazil. And she was all for it. We will produce witnesses who will tell you that Janet Arvizo was very excited about going to Brazil. Her children, apparently, weren't excited, because they wanted to stay at Neverland. But we will prove to you through witness testimony that she was very happy about going to Brazil until she concluded that Schaffel and Dieter and Konitzer and others were somehow trying to profit off Michael Jackson and keep her out of the profits. That's when all these new claims began to surface. And when she decided not to go to Brazil, she didn't go to Brazil. When she decided not to go to Brazil, Marc Schaffel went to Brazil anyway. Because that's where he was planning to go all along. We will produce witnesses who will tell you that she was excited about this vacation. She thought she was going to be with Michael Jackson. And one of the constant themes I've been articulating to you is that when she realized Michael wasn't going to be there taking care of the family the rest of their life, her attitude suddenly changed. And when she realized she couldn't make millions of dollars one way, she looked for another way. And here we are. I was going through a chronological description yesterday of events, and we were into February of 2003. I told you that the Bashir program had aired in the United States on February 6th, 2003. I also told you, ladies and gentlemen, we would prove that that's the day that Prosecutor Sneddon announced he was investigating. And according to this prosecutor, a little over a month after he starts investigating, and Michael Jackson learns about it, he suddenly begins to molest. It's false and absurd. I told you that two days later, on February 8th, 2003, Ed Bradley at 60 Minutes arrived at Neverland with his film crew. Also present was the president of CBS Entertainment, Jack Sussman; Attorney David LeGrand, whom I just mentioned to you, the one who began investigating the backgrounds and the activities of these alleged co-conspirators; and Attorney Mark Geragos. Now, Attorney Mark Geragos you've heard about because he's been in some high-profile cases in California. And he had been contacted by Mr. LeGrand because Mr. Sneddon had started an investigation. He was at Neverland that day also. That's February 8th. On February 13th, Janet Arvizo has a phone conversation with Frank Cascio that is recorded, without her knowledge. And I'd like to tell you a few of the things she said in that phone conversation February 13th. She didn't like those German people, she said, and of course she was referring to Dieter and Konitzer. She said to Frank Cascio, “I love you so much. You don't know how much I love you. Your little sister and your little brother”. Janet Arvizo: “Yeah, it's like we're family, you know, Frank”. Frank tells her, “And to protect Michael, because we've been in this situation many times, Janet. And you know what, it ends up hurting the kids, and we don't want -- and Michael does not want Gavin to be hurt”. Janet, as I said yesterday, has been complaining that the media are harassing her. And that her son, who was in the Bashir documentary, is being hassled at school. She has requested security help and she has gotten it. We will prove to you now she has converted all of this into this notion of being imprisoned. Janet: “Oh, I know, I know. That's why I'm getting all those information. Oh, for example, ahh, there was like a year and a half ago, a year and a half ago they did an investigation of me and David”. David, of course, is her ex-husband. “We understand that Michael Jackson and Chris Tucker are involved with you and the kids”. And they said -- and the kids spoke up and they said, “They're family to us. If we didn't have Michael, if we didn't have Michael, we wouldn't have a father, a father figure in our life”. And then the social worker, referring to the Department of Children & Family Services: “Okay. I'll give the person here a call. Name, David Arvizo. And she documented it and everything. So I'm returning the note paper so you can have all these papers”. She continually says, “Michael is our father”. Ladies and gentlemen, Michael Jackson will tell you one time at Neverland he got a very bad feeling and intuition. They were in the theater that you've heard about. There is a theater at Neverland, where you can just go in, and kids can have their seats. It's on an incline. You got a stage and you got a big screen. He was there with Janet Arvizo and the three kids, Gavin, Star and Davellin. And all of a sudden, Janet Arvizo grabs Michael's hand and has her children all hold hands, and she says, “Let's all kneel down and pray with our Daddy Michael”. And Michael Jackson got a very bad feeling. And after that, he concluded, “I got to get away. I got to get away. I love helping this child, but something is wrong”. And we will prove to you that he was warned by others, “Get away”. Janet Arvizo continues in that recorded phone conversation, “I know we're family, Frank. Me -- you, me, my kids, are family. You, Marie Nicole, my kids, Baby Rubba, are family. Michael, Marie Nicole, you, me, are family, and my parents, that's all I got”. “So that's why these German people” -- and it's inaudible what she says, but presumably it's not too kind. She is sensing that Dieter and Konitzer, the ones who wanted to take over Michael's business, are keeping her away from Michael, the daddy figure, the one who's supposed to rescue her family from all of their troubles. Further on, she says to Frank Cascio, “So he's -- I told him, I told the German people, 'But you don't understand. He's family to us and we're family to him'. And oh, ahh..”. And he goes, “Your kids are unimportant, you know”. “Michael's family to me. My kids call him 'Daddy Michael'”. Yesterday the prosecutor told you he would prove that Michael wanted this. Nonsense. Frank Cascio: “Michael wants to see you”. Janet Arvizo: “Tell him he's our family”. Frank Cascio: “You don't have to talk to him”. Janet Arvizo: “I thought, like everything, my family was in jeopardy”. Frank Cascio: “No”. Janet Arvizo: “Meaning us being with Michael and Michael being with us”. She fears that relationship is ending. Ladies and gentlemen, we will prove that three days later, the Arvizo family are interviewed by Brad Miller, a licensed California investigator, employed by Attorney Mark Geragos. Now, Mr. Geragos at this point was concerned about who the Arvizos were, and what they were up to, and what they really were trying to accomplish. During this period of alleged false imprisonment, the investigator visits them at their home. Does Major Jay Jackson of the Army Reserve call the police. No. They have an interview with the investigator that is tape-recorded. Again, three days after that phone conversation with Frank was recorded and she didn't know it was being recorded. Okay. She starts talking about her son's cancer. Janet Arvizo: “To this day it's an unknown cancer. And it's been declared that by multiple laboratories and a team of 12 doctors”. And she talks about her son's internal organs that have been removed. Left adrenal, kidney, tip of his pancreas, spleen, lymph nodes, et cetera. The investigator says to her, “Okay. Thank you. And what was Mr. Jackson's role in his recovery”. Janet Arvizo: “Like a -- like a father to him”. Investigator: “What would Michael do”. Janet Arvizo: “Everything a loving father -- unselfish, kind” - inaudible - then “exhibits unconditional love”. She goes on: “And that's one thing the role Michael was -- there's not -- he wasn't just a father figure to Gavin, he also was to Star and Davellin, because he knew all three of them needed him. And he was, um, is family to me and he also realized that I needed him”. This is when she's living with her boyfriend, whom she later married. Janet Arvizo - we go on further - “Yes, and all -- David's role - her ex-husband - to make sure he appeared to be a good father to people, because he knows of the harm that he placed on me and my children for years”. “How long were you married to David”. “17 years. I'm living -- we're legally separated, pending divorce”. And then she talks about her being the victim of domestic violence by the ex-husband. I remind you, in the J.C. Penney deposition, she said he had never touched her, under oath. She talks about her ex-husband committing acts of child endangerment and terrorist threats. Sound familiar. Then Gavin says about his father, “He hit me while I -- during my cancer treatment. Even when I had surgery, he hit me a lot”. Star Arvizo: “He used to hit me in the head a lot and used to always kick me”. Davellin: “He would throw us against the wall and he would yank us by the hair”. Davellin: “My mom has bald spots resulting from my father”. Then Janet talks about how he would abuse their dog and their pet ferret. Continuing with Janet Arvizo in this conversation that she knew was recorded: “No, I'm just a regular person, Brad. I had to live with him for 17 years. And for 17 years I wished that one day me and my children were going to be delivered from this evil. And when Michael came into the picture, I knew that Michael was kind and gentle and a loving person, and he too had to be delivered from him”. Continuing; Janet Arvizo: “Yes, he went -- they had filmed. When they had filmed the beautiful story about Michael and my son, David was there, present”. That's the Bashir filming. “And he no longer allowed me to be around Michael because he was afraid that I was going to tell Michael about everything. Everything that the children had -- were undergoing by his -- his -- I don't know how to classify it -- evil demonic ways”. She calls the ex-husband demonic. Didn't Mr. Sneddon tell you that she refers to Michael as “the devil”. Continuing in this interview; Janet Arvizo: “And that one day the kids and me were going to tell Michael. So only one time I went with David up there when he was the -- and me and Michael were dancing. Just dancing. We were approximately -- maybe like 20 feet from each other and we were dancing to the same song. And when I -- and when we were taken back into that room, that's why the rest of the trip Michael never saw me again. I was beaten up”. She says she was beaten up inside the guest room by her ex-husband at Neverland. Were police called. No. Were complaints made. No. Did anyone hear about it. No. Were security yards contacted at Neverland. No. Kitchen staff, zookeeper, management, administration, fire truck operator. No. “And me, because I knew that Michael was going to help us. I knew he was going to protect us, as any loving father would, as any head of household. Because that's how I see Michael, as a family man. He's a family man”. The investigator looks at Gavin, and he says, “Gavin, tell me about when you would spend the night with Michael. Where would you sleep”. “I spent the night with Michael one time when he slept on the floor”. He says his brother and he slept on Michael's bed. Michael slept on the floor. And “Michael slept on the floor. Michael slept on the floor”. “When I had cancer, he would sleep on the floor. And my brother would be there with me”. “Was there ever anything inappropriate with Michael. Janet: “Never”. Davellin, the sister, says the following: “He's a bigger father to all of us. He's given us safety. He's given us love. He's given us everything we've ever wanted. He's been our father figure. He's the only thing we know to be a father”. Michael Jackson is being sucked in. And look what happens when you try to sever the connection and not take responsibility for this family for the rest of your life, after you were kind enough to help them when they were in need. Janet Arvizo: “And being what I endured for 17 years, I would be the most sensitive to any little thing. And Michael has never, absolutely never made me feel, in any way, form or shape or matter, that anything was different, other than Gavin, as a son to Michael, Star as a son to Michael, Davellin as a daughter to Michael. And Michael father, like a father to all three of them. And to me, family. We, my kids and me, no rejection. We know neglection. We've been rejected, neglected, spit on, fried, tried, burned, abused, the door shut in our face, opportunities lost. And Michael said -- took us from way behind in the line and pulled us up to the front, and said, “You matter to me. You may not matter to many people, but you matter to me. And that's what's important'”. The prosecutor wants you to think this was all scripted and done through force at the Major's home. The Major in the United States Army. Janet talks a little bit about her life, ladies and gentlemen. That obviously is going to be an issue in this courtroom. She says David, her ex-husband's older brother, is a convicted drug dealer. She says she would get beatings “because I wouldn't participate in drug activities or drug sales. I got beat up for things I stood for”. Always leading up to “Michael has rescued us from destruction. We are his family. He is responsible for us”. As I mentioned to you, that was February 16th, 2003, three days after the recorded phone conversation. Now we go to February 20th, four days later. We will prove to you that Janet and the kids did a video, freely, voluntarily; they wanted it. The kids wanted to be on camera. They wanted to be actors. The mother wanted to be on camera. The hitch was they wanted lots of money. They arrived at the home of the videographer in Los Angeles. We will produce witnesses who will tell you that Janet seemed happy as a lark, excited and interested; but delayed it so she could talk to someone whom she thought was an attorney. She didn't want to sign a document releasing rights. She wanted rights. She wanted money if they were going to be filmed. So they went through a lot of discussion like that. No false imprisonment, no abduction. No force. Nothing like that. She was laughing and giggling throughout the video, as you will see. You will see her laughing during the filming. And you will see her laughing with her kids when they think they're not being filmed. She goes through the same routine I just read to you. The same victim routine. “We were spat on because of our race, our poverty. Nobody would help us. We shared cereal. We were going nowhere”, words to that effect. “And Daddy Michael rescued us. Took us into his fold, became the surrogate father”. And they all praise him to the hilt. This is February 20th. They praise him for all he has done to help Gavin with his illness. They praise him for all he has done to help them enjoy life. But implicit in everything she says is, “We are now his family. He is now our dad”. Again, while she's living with Major Jay Jackson of the United States Army. Again, she says, this is all part of the false imprisonment. And as I said to you yesterday, when you see this tape - and if they don't show you, we will - just watch the responses. Watch the facial expressions. Watch the spontaneity in the Arvizos. Watch Davellin shed tears about wonderful Michael is. Watch Gavin praise him for being a father figure; and say to yourself, “Is this whole family rehearsed because there's a gun to their head”. Absolutely, positively no. She does bring religion in; I'll tell you that. She says that, “God's grace as God works through people, so does the devil. But God elected to work in Michael to breathe life into Gavin and to my two other children, and to me a much necessary love in a very traumatic time in our life”. On, and on, and on. The next morning, she's interviewed by the Los Angeles Department of Children & Family Services. Now, the prosecutor told you that this was all under the gun too, because there was some security guy imprisoning them or stopping their movement or stopping them from calling someone on a telephone. Did they ever tell the interviewers from the Los Angeles Department of Children & Family Services, “We're being held against our will, my children are being abducted, I'm being falsely imprisoned, we are prisoners of Michael Jackson”. No. They sang his praises again. And you know something. Actor Chris Tucker, from the Rush Hour Series, girlfriend was there too. Did they ever look at her and, say, “Please, sneak a call to the police. Call 9-1-1. Do something. Help us. We're being restricted”. No. After they realized the effect of these interviews, after they realized it might be a tough sell, that this is all scripted and done by force, that's when the dates of the alleged molestation changed to after these interviews. Gavin has said to the police on one occasion it was before the DCFS interview, and then changed it to it was after. How come. How come. The day after those interviews, Ms. Arvizo went to a lawyer named William Dickerman. She had concluded that she had been duped by Schaffel, Dieter, Konitzer, Frank, Vinnie. She had concluded she was not going to get a piece of the action from any rebuttal show, which, as you know, was supposed to be a response to the Bashir documentary. And as I said to you yesterday, yes, there was concern over Michael being placed in a false light, and Bashir. But also these people saw great money-making opportunities, because you could do another show and the networks were bidding for the other show. She decided she wasn't going to be able to obtain what she wanted and now it was time to take legal action. She had the lawyer send a series of letters to Geragos. And they started coming. First of all, she was upset that she was joined with Michael as a complainant, a plaintiff in a British lawsuit against the company that produced the Bashir documentary. Because as I said to you yesterday, we will prove Michael was duped by Bashir, didn't want his children revealed so you could recognize them on the show, thought he had editorial control, and trusted Bashir. Janet claimed to be upset that her son was on the show. In reality, we'll prove, she wanted money from the show. That was the problem. She had joined Michael Jackson in a suit in England with Michael Jackson paying the fees. And it was done through LeGrand, his lawyer who I mentioned before, who had obtained legal counsel in England. She decided, “I'm not going to get much out of any of this”. So she went to this lawyer and he starts writing letters to Mr. Geragos, saying she wants her property back, which is in storage. At her request, her property was taken from the studio apartment, put in storage. Her back rent was paid by these people who were helping her out, because she wanted to go to Brazil, and she always complained, “I want to live in a nicer place”. In fact, her daughter stated to one witness, “We're going to get a nice home in the Hollywood Hills”. Her fiance and now husband complained, “We want more than a house out of this. We want more than a college education out of this. You guys are making millions. What are we getting”. She wanted out of that location. What she decided to do when she thought she couldn't make money the friendly way was to make money through lawyers the hostile way. And Dickerman started sending letters, “We want her furniture back, we want her possessions back”, as if Michael Jackson wanted to steal her furniture and possessions. But nevertheless, he also said, “We don't want Mr. Jackson's people hassling her, harassing her. Interestingly enough, the letters keep coming, and there's never any mention of child molestation. Not in any of these letters. Those claims evolved with time. In late March, Janet Arvizo bumped into one of the Department of Children & Family Services workers who had interviewed her at a hamburger place, late March 2003. Never mentioned sexual misconduct, false imprisonment, extortion, child abduction, giving alcohol to minors for sexual purposes. Never mentions any of this stuff. Sees her at a public place. March 26th, Lawyer Dickerman contacts Mark Geragos and never mentions sexual misconduct. It's in April of 2003 that Janet Arvizo goes to Lawyer Larry Feldman. On April 16th of 2003, the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department closes their case investigating Michael Jackson. They conclude no criminal activity has gone on. In May of 2003, that's May 15th, Larry Feldman, who, as you know, has sued Michael Jackson before, gets Janet and the children to talk to a psychologist that he uses as an expert witness in other cases. In other words, lawyers often will have experts they want to use and the experts get paid, and they're kind of in bed together. Not until May 29th, 2003, does this psychologist suddenly claim he has a reasonable suspicion there was molestation. I repeat the date. May 29th, 2003. She hires Attorney Feldman in April. It's not till the very end of May that they come up with these false claims. On June 5th, 2003, the psychologist meets with Lawyer Feldman and Lawyer Dickerman. They're all collaborating. Doesn't go to the police. Janet doesn't go to the police. The kids don't go to the police. Psychologist Katz and Lawyer Feldman go to the Los Angeles Department of Children & Family Services on June 13th to report this. I'd like you to hear this one, ladies and gentlemen: On September 30th, 2003, Lieutenant Klapakis from the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Office calls the Los Angeles Department of Children & Family Services and doesn't want them to interview the Arvizos. I repeat, doesn't want them to interview the Arvizos. They already had. On March 29th, 2004, Janet Arvizo testifies under oath before a grand jury in Santa Barbara and says she learned for the first time about the molestation from the police. That, we will prove, is false. Ladies and gentlemen, it's going to be a long trial and you're going to see and hear lots of evidence. We are extremely confident that, when you do, you are going to find Michael Jackson absolutely not guilty of any of this. Thank you. `
The Court: Thank you, Mesereau.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
The Court: We'll take our morning recess. Remember the admonition.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: All right. Is there a stipulation reached.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, Your Honor, between counsel.
Mr. Sanger: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: Would you state, briefly state the stipulation.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, Your Honor. The stipulation is that there are certain exhibits lodged with the Court in connection with the grand jury proceedings, and there's a stipulation that those exhibits can be released to us, to the People, and that -- for mutual use by both sides.
Mr. Sanger: So stipulated, Your Honor.
The Court: I'll approve that stipulation and release the exhibits.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you, Your Honor.
The Court: Leslie, is the unit on here. Is this on.
The Bailiff: You need to --
The Court: No, I just asked if the --
The Bailiff: It takes about ten seconds to heat up.
The Court: You may call your first witness.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you, Your Honor. Call Martin Bashir. Mr. Bashir, come forward, please.
The Court: Come forward to the witness stand. And when you get to the witness stand, remain standing, face the clerk here, raise your right hand.
Message: MARTIN BASHIR Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Martin Bashir: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Martin Bashir: My name is Martin Bashir. M-a-r-t-i-n; surname, B-a-s, as in “sugar”, h-i-r.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Mr. Bashir, I'm going to ask you if you'd scoot a little closer to that microphone, if you can.
Martin Bashir: I'm not particularly tall. I'm sorry.
Mr. Sneddon: That's all right. Mr. Bashir, what is your profession or occupation.
Martin Bashir: I'm a television journalist.
Mr. Sneddon: And how long have you been involved in that occupation.
Martin Bashir: I've been involved in journalism for 20 years, and I've been a television journalist for around 18 years.
Mr. Sneddon: Could you just --
The Court: Somehow you need to get closer to that mike. Can you swing it towards you a little bit.
Bailiff Cortez: It's bolted down.
The Court: It moves this way.
Martin Bashir: I'm sorry.
The Court: Okay.
Martin Bashir: Sorry.
The Court: You'll have to move to it. It doesn't --
Martin Bashir: I'm sorry. I've been working as a journalist for 20 years, and I've been working as a television journalist for around 18 years.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell us a little bit, to the ladies and gentlemen of the jury, if you would, a little bit about what a television journalist does.
Martin Bashir: A television journalist is somebody who performs the task of journalism, which is, in effect, to report, to research, to investigate, to report stories. The distinction would be that a television journalist, as opposed to a newspaper journalist, would use the medium of television so that -- when I started my career, I would write for newspapers, do stories for newspapers, did some sports reporting, some general news. And then when I moved on to television, it was the same core task of reporting, but it was done using the medium of television.
Mr. Sneddon: And then how does the profession -- how does the way that you practice that profession differ, if it does in any respect, from those that we see on the nightly network news stations reporting the news as a journalist.
Martin Bashir: There would be no distinction as to what I'm doing. I'm covering stories and reporting. I suppose the distinction would be that news journalists would tend to file shorter reports. My career has tended to be fixed around long-form films. I mean by that documentaries, half-hour, one-hour, and in some cases two-hour films, current affairs programs. So I would tend to be described in the United Kingdom as a current affairs specialist, somebody who does long-form film as opposed to nightly news.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, in the practice of your profession, where is it that you've worked professionally.
Martin Bashir: As a television journalist.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, sir.
Martin Bashir: I began at the BBC with what we call regional broadcasting. That would be like a local affiliate to you.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, what is the BBC.
Martin Bashir: The BBC is the British Broadcasting Corporation. It is a state-funded broadcasting organization which does everything from drama, comedy, to news and current affairs, light entertainment, music, and I joined a local regional station in London covering news that was breaking in London. I did that for three years. Then after that, I was promoted to a network position on a current affairs program called “Public Eye”. And there I did a variety of domestic stories, everything ranging from car crime, to stories about violent attacks and racist attacks on immigrant groups in London. After that -- I did that for about three years, and then after that I moved on to a program called “Panorama”, and that was in 1992. “Panorama” is the BBC's flagship current affairs program. And whilst on that program, I did a number of important stories, and the first film I did for “Panorama” was actually a film about allegations of satanic abuse. I did a film which investigated whether there was such a thing. There was so-called satanic covens --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Narrative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: In the year of 2002 -- excuse me just a second. (Brief interruption.)
Mr. Sneddon: All right, Mr. Bashir, let's jump forward in your career to the year 2002, if we could.
Martin Bashir: Sure.
Mr. Sneddon: Where were you employed professionally in the year 2002.
Martin Bashir: I was employed by the United Kingdom's biggest commercial television network ITV.
Mr. Sneddon: And what does “ITV” stand for.
Martin Bashir: Independent Television.
Mr. Sneddon: And in connection with your professional responsibilities there, did you do video documentaries.
Martin Bashir: What do you mean by “video documentaries”.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Then obviously you didn't, if you don't know what it's called. When you do programs, what do you call them.
Martin Bashir: I call them films.
Mr. Sneddon: Films.
Martin Bashir: Yeah. Current affairs films.
Mr. Sneddon: Current affairs films, so we can talk about the same thing. Now, could you give me just two or three or maybe four, just by name, of individuals that you've done current affairs films for over the years.
Martin Bashir: Sure. I did a one-hour special on a notorious serial killer called Harold Shipman, who is alleged to have murdered 273 people and was found guilty in court and in fact committed suicide quite recently. I did an hour on that. I did a special hour on an extraordinary story featuring a Maltese couple who came to the United Kingdom, and the mother was --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance.
The Court: The qualifications is overruled.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you do a current affairs piece on Princess Diana.
Martin Bashir: I did, yeah. That was not in 2002. That was in 1995.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. So you did do that.
Martin Bashir: I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And how long was that production.
Martin Bashir: I think the total duration was around an hour and 50 minutes, an hour and 45 minutes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, in connection with your current affairs occupation or business during the year 2000, did you do a current affairs film on the defendant in this case, Michael Jackson.
Martin Bashir: I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And could you tell me when it was that you commenced that, in what year.
Martin Bashir: 2002.
Mr. Sneddon: And when did you finish it.
Martin Bashir: The broadcast date was the 3rd of February, 2003.
Mr. Sneddon: When did you actually complete the project, the filming of it.
Martin Bashir: The filming of it, I think the last day of filming was the 14th of January, 2003, in Miami.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, during the time -- and you have -- let me ask you this: Did you review the actual film that was used in connection with the broadcast you just mentioned in Great Britain.
Martin Bashir: I'm sorry, what do you mean, did I “review” it.
Mr. Sneddon: The one that was shown on the television. Excuse me, let me just go back for a second if we can. What was the name of the program in which the current affairs film on the defendant in this case, Mr. Jackson, was shown in the United Kingdom.
Martin Bashir: It was titled, “Living with Michael Jackson”.
Mr. Sneddon: And what program was it connected with. Some individual program, or just --
Martin Bashir: It was made by a team. The current affairs team that supplied the weekly output for ITV was called “Tonight”. The show was called “Tonight”.
Mr. Sneddon: That's what I was after, what the show was called.
Martin Bashir: Forgive me, I'm sorry. The program itself, because it was longer than a normal “Tonight” show, was actually broadcast on a different night in the evening for a longer duration, so it was given its own specific title for that reason.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Your Honor, at this time I have two exhibits I'd like to have marked as People's 1 and People's 2 for identification purposes. Actually, if you would excuse me, I will make my way over to the clerk. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, the exhibits that I've just had the clerk mark for identification purposes, People's 1 is a custodian of the records declaration from a Phillip Lunt, L-u-n-t, from Granada Productions as the declarant, as the custodian. And the second exhibit is the -- I'm opening the package and removing from it the film. That's been marked as People's Exhibit No. 2, which according to the authentication, is a copy of the program that was shown in Great Britain on February the 3rd, so I'd like to have both of these moved into evidence as People's 1 and 2, and I intend to then show the video to the jury.
The Court: All right. They're admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: Mr. Bashir, one last question before we actually show the video. During the time that you were in production of the video “Living with Michael Jackson”, were you aware of the fact that Mr. Jackson also had one of his videographers accompanying you during the filming of your footage.
Mr. Boutrous: Objection. Your Honor, I should probably introduce myself. I'm Mr. Bashir's counsel, Theodore J. Boutrous, Jr., and I'm joined here today by Henry Hoberman, who is a senior vice-president and the head of litigation for ABC News, and pursuant to the Court's prior order, I'm going to object to this question on the grounds that it calls for unpublished information that's protected by the California Constitution's journalist shield law which is meant to protect the independence of journalists from being called to testify. And I'd like to renew our objection to Mr. Bashir being called today and also would rely on the First Amendment, First Amendment privilege for journalists. Thank you, Your Honor.
The Court: Mr. Boutrous, the objection you raise, it's not a privilege. It's a shield from contempt. So from the standpoint of sustaining your objection, I won't sustain the objection. The question's been asked. Are you going to answer the question.
Mr. Boutrous: Your Honor, the First Amendment privilege is a privilege, so I would request that the Court enforce that privilege. This is unpublished information gathered in the news- gathering process, and it's important for journalists to have that freedom to gather news and report it without intrusion of the courts. And I would ask the Court to enforce the First Amendment privilege. We have great respect for the Court and don't want to go into contempt, but we would ask the Court to preclude that type of questioning. And based on some of the arguments, I'm concerned that this will become a side issue, and it could really do harm to the ability of journalists to gather information that's of important public interest and concern and disseminate it to the public. So I'd ask the Court to at this point limit the questioning to published information and background information about Mr. Bashir on both sides, because I'm concerned about where the --
The Court: The rights are different on both sides.
Mr. Boutrous: They are, Your Honor, and in fact it's an absolute privilege with respect to -- yes, it's an absolute privilege with respect to the District Attorney, and on that ground, I would ask the Court to enforce it absolutely and preclude this question, and Mr. Jackson's lawyers have not made any showing thus far that they have any ability --
The Court: True. We're not at that issue.
Mr. Boutrous: Okay. Thank you, Your Honor.
The Court: The question, though, has been asked. The objection is overruled. And I'm asking the witness if he's going to answer the question. Would you like it read back to you.
Martin Bashir: I would, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you.
The Court Reporter: Mr. Bashir, one last question before we actually show the video. During the time that you were in production of the video “Living with Michael Jackson”, were you aware of the fact that Mr. Jackson also had one of his videographers accompanying you during the filming of your footage.
Martin Bashir: The answer to the question is yes, but the individual concerned --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
Martin Bashir: -- only filmed on two occasions.
The Court: Wait. You answered the question, and there's an objection. The question is answered.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
The Court: And the answer was “Yes”.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Your Honor, I understand you have a button that has to be activated before we can show the VCR.
The Court: That's true.
Mr. Sneddon: And my second question is, Your Honor, we do have a transcript of this if, in the Court's discretion, you would like to have the jurors have them at this time. If not, that's fine.
The Court: Because I'm not sure at this point that the transcripts are transcripts of this, and you couldn't make that representation to me, I'm not going to allow the transcript to be passed around.
Mr. Sneddon: That's perfectly understandable, Your Honor. All right.
The Court: Now, I think I pushed the right button.
Mr. Boutrous: Could I make a request. Would it be possible for Mr. Bashir to come down so he can watch the broadcast rather than -- I can vacate my seat if that would --
The Court: Oh, yeah, absolutely. But I didn't want to have him come down yet until we're sure that -- I think we're at that point.
Mr. Boutrous: No problem.
Mr. Mesereau: If I may lodge an objection, Your Honor; no transcripts. The rules of Court require them before you show a tape.
The Court: Audiotape. They require them on videotape.
Mr. Mesereau: I believe so, Your Honor. They also require that the jury have the transcript.
The Court: I don't think that's the case.
Mr. Sneddon: I thought that what it required was that the record on appeal requires a transcript, not that it's required at the time.
The Court: You have to lodge the tape with the Court, which I didn't prevent him from doing. He wanted to hand the jurors copies, and you weren't in chambers, but it was represented in chambers that he hasn't had the opportunity to compare his transcript to this tape. So I'm not -- you know, I'm not having that. I wouldn't want to hand it to the jury at this point.
Mr. Sneddon: Because it just got here.
The Court: Yeah, this tape just got to my office last Friday.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, sir, at the court.
Mr. Mesereau: Could I request, Your Honor, that we get a copy of their transcript.
The Court: Certainly.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
The Court: Now, I'm going to let Mr. Bashir sit down, if you're sure you don't have any other questions to ask him.
Mr. Sneddon: I better quit while I'm ahead, Your Honor. I guess we'll have Mr. Bashir come down here, I'll give him my chair, and he can watch.
The Court: I can't see. Is there any room. There's someone nodding affirmatively. He can sit next to that individual. Mr. Bashir, you may step down now.
Martin Bashir: Thank you.
Mr. Boutrous: Just to be clear, too, this is Mr. Hoberman, who I identified in passing.
Mr. Hoberman: Good morning, Your Honor.
The Court: The individual shaking his head was co-counsel.
Mr. Hoberman: Good morning, Your Honor.
The Court: Good morning. Whenever you're ready. I have a button here that also allows me to have the screen go blank, and if counsel is concerned, any of the attorneys is concerned -- huh.
Mr. Sneddon: I thought you were still talking.
The Court: If you're concerned, tell me and just say, “Blank it”, and I'll do that.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
The Court: That would only be because it shows something I don't anticipate. (Whereupon, a portion of a videotape, People's Exhibit No. 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
The Court: You know, would you hold it a second. There's one admonition that I want to make to the jury before we watch this, and I'm going to give you a more detailed instruction on this later, but I just want to prepare you for this right now: That the video of “Living with Michael Jackson”, which is this video, at this point is not offered for the truth of anything said or shown in the program, with the exception of certain passages that will later be identified. You will receive additional instruction with regard to these identified passages. The rest of the contents of the video is hearsay and not -- and cannot be considered by you to prove anything other than the fact that the program aired in February of 2003. You may now go forward.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, we're ready.
The Court: Yes. (Whereupon, a portion of a videotape, People's Exhibit No. 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Sneddon: There's about a 30-second break, Your Honor. Or 45 seconds.
The Court: Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: We're missing the commercials.
Mr. Auchincloss: Your Honor, I can try and fast forward through this if you'd like.
The Court: Whatever you'd like. (Whereupon, a portion of a videotape, People's Exhibit No. 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
The Court: Well, it's almost time for the 11:30 break, so let's take the 11:30 break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: All right. You may proceed. (Whereupon, a portion of a videotape, People's Exhibit No. 2, was played for the Court and jury to its conclusion.)
The Court: Do you anticipate needing the screen again for a while.
Mr. Sneddon: No, sir. I have no further questions, Your Honor.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, my name is Thomas Mesereau, and I speak for Mr. Jackson.
Martin Bashir: Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point in time, you made an effort to contact Mr. Jackson about doing this show, correct.
Martin Bashir: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that.
Martin Bashir: I think it was around April 2002.
Mr. Mesereau: And you contacted someone named Uri Geller, correct.
Mr. Boutrous: Objection, Your Honor. I think Mr. Mesereau is now straying directly into the areas covered by the California shield law and the First Amendment, and we would ask the Court to rule that that kind of inquiry is off limits.
The Court: Before we rule on that objection, I think we need to discuss the scope of the examination here. As I see it, the prosecution put him on simply to authenticate the tape. I suspect you would like to examine him at length, based on your opening statement, about a lot of things.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor. But he does give special thanks to Mr. Uri Geller at the end of the tape. And the prosecution played that tape, and I think they've opened the door on that one.
Mr. Sneddon: It's not even in for the truth of the matter stated, Your Honor.
The Court: I think I'll -- do you have him under subpoena.
Mr. Mesereau: No.
The Court: What I think I should do is to limit your examination of him at this time as to the foundation of the tape. So that's what I'm going to do.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, in order to produce the show we've just watched, you had to speak to Mr. Jackson, true.
Mr. Boutrous: Objection, Your Honor. Again, this is unpublished information. It's clear from the face of the tape that Mr. Bashir talked to Mr. Jackson, and that's published material and that's the limits of the proper examination.
The Court: I'll overrule the objection for the same reason I stated earlier. Would you be more comfortable to be at counsel table where you have a microphone.
Mr. Boutrous: That might be helpful, Your Honor. It might be better for the jury, and they won't have to see me jumping up and down. I don't want -- I'm a little uncomfortable taking one side or the other.
The Court: Well, I think you need to take a chair. We won't assume you're taking anyone's side.
Mr. Boutrous: Okay. Thank you. And, Your Honor, may I just inquire on the procedure that the Court is following. Because the approach the Court took, the initial objection was to ask Mr. Bashir to decide whether to answer. And I'm reluctant to have him make that decision without knowing that I'm going to be able to argue against a potential contempt finding based on the shield law. So if the Court could clarify the procedures that it's following, that would be very helpful.
The Court: Well, the procedure I was following was to let you make your objection. Then I'll ask the witness if he wishes to answer the question, and we will go from there.
Mr. Boutrous: Will I have an opportunity, if the witness declines to answer based on the constitutional shield law protecting journalists, to then argue that the material's protected and the Court should not hold Mr. Bashir in contempt.
The Court: Of course.
Mr. Boutrous: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, the prosecution did go into Mr. Bashir's qualifications. May I cross-examine in that area.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: First of all, Mr. Bashir, I did ask you a question, and that question I'll repeat: In order to produce what the jury has just seen, you had to make contact with Mr. Jackson, correct.
Martin Bashir: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you made numerous attempts to contact Mr. Jackson, true.
Mr. Boutrous: Again, Your Honor, I object on the grounds that that's unpublished information, and it's also unclear from the face of the tapes that he had contact with Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, I have correspondence from Mr. Bashir. It's pretty obvious that, in a nonprivileged context, he was trying to make contact and say what he wanted to do.
The Court: The objection is overruled. Do you wish to answer that question, Mr. Bashir.
Mr. Boutrous: I'm going to leave it to Mr. Bashir. It puts him in a difficult position. Because there's a very important legal principle that's taken. It does not matter whether Mr. Mesereau claims to have correspondence or that there's other documents. That's the limits of the permissible --
The Court: I think I understand the legal parameters.
Mr. Boutrous: -- information.... I just want to make sure I preserve the record and that the --
The Court: You are doing an excellent job.
Mr. Boutrous: Thank you, Your Honor.
Martin Bashir: Your Honor, my preface is to simply stand by the film as you've seen it and to testify as to its contents.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll object, Your Honor, and move to strike his comments. They were not in response to any question.
The Court: Well, actually they were a response to my question if he wanted to answer the question.
Martin Bashir: Sorry, sir. That --
The Court: So I won't let you strike that. All right. He is following his counsel's advice and he's not answering that question. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, I would move for sanctions against the witness. Or I would move to strike all of his testimony, including the prosecution's playing of this tape, if he refuses to be cross-examined.
The Court: The way I would like to proceed with this is that he -- he does have some protection under the shield law that his counsel has been pointing out. That protection is against contempt of court. What I think I'll do is let you ask him the questions, let his attorney make the objections, let him decide whether he's going to answer. And then I'll make a record -- we have a record of those questions, and then I'll review them later to determine whether or not I feel a contempt charge should be issued. It's really a ticklish area of the law.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, you outlined some qualifications you have in the world of journalism, correct.
Martin Bashir: I didn't outline any qualifications, sir. I just referred to the chronology of my career.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you mean, when you did that, to explain that you're a qualified professional journalist.
Martin Bashir: I meant simply to explain my career chronologically, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you consider yourself as a professional journalist.
Martin Bashir: I do, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you consider yourself a professional journalist because you've had certain experience in journalism.
Martin Bashir: I do, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you consider yourself to be a professional journalist because you're educated in the world of journalism.
Martin Bashir: My academic studies were not in journalism. They were in the arts and humanities. So I don't have a formal qualification, if that's what you're asking, sir, but I have the experience that comes with working in the profession.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, as a journalist in England, you are regulated by a certain administrative agency, correct.
Martin Bashir: Could you repeat the question.
Mr. Mesereau: Sure. Is there an organization or an administrative agency that goes by a title somewhat like British Broadcasting Standards Board.
Martin Bashir: There is an organization called the Broadcasting Complaints Commission. Would you be referring to that.
Mr. Mesereau: I think I am. Do you work with that organization in any capacity.
Martin Bashir: That organization doesn't employ journalists.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you been sanctioned by that organization.
Martin Bashir: Could you repeat the question.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you been sanctioned by that organization.
Martin Bashir: By the Broadcasting Complaints Commission.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Martin Bashir: The answer to that question is, three complaints were made against me. Two of the key complaints were entirely rejected, and they were to do with balance and fairness. One of the three was upheld. This is -- sir, just so I can explain so people understand, because they --
Mr. Mesereau: Certainly.
Martin Bashir: -- because they may not understand. The Broadcasting Standards Commission is not a legal body, and it has no particular merit in a legal setting.
Mr. Mesereau: Nevertheless, a complaint against you as a journalist was upheld, true.
Martin Bashir: As I said, sir, three complaints were made. The two key complaints were entirely rejected. One complaint was upheld of the three.
Mr. Mesereau: Let's talk about the one that was upheld, sir. There was a complaint against you that was upheld by that agency, correct.
Martin Bashir: There was, sir, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did they complain about, Mr. Bashir.
Martin Bashir: The complaint related to -- to what -- to what -- to how I described what I was doing with the story that I was working on.
Mr. Mesereau: And what were you doing, Mr. Bashir.
Martin Bashir: I was doing journalism.
Mr. Mesereau: Could you put a little teeth on that and just tell the jury what we're talking about.
Martin Bashir: In relation to.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know what we're talking about.
Martin Bashir: Do you mean the specific program. Sorry, I don't know whether -- sorry, I apologize. Are you asking me about the complaint, or are you asking me about the story, the reporting that I was doing.
Mr. Mesereau: Why don't you tell the jury about both.
Mr. Boutrous: Your Honor, I'm going to object. Mr. Mesereau is now inquiring about unpublished information or unbroadcast information about another matter. Same objection.
The Court: Well, it's a compound question. Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Please describe for the jury the subject matter of the complaint you just identified, Mr. Bashir.
Martin Bashir: The story was about a teenaged prodigy, a mathematics genius, who had run away from university, had legally emancipated herself from her family. And the story was to describe what had happened from both sides.
Mr. Mesereau: You were accused of misrepresentations, true.
Martin Bashir: No, that's incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: You were not accused of misrepresenting anything in that complaint.
Martin Bashir: I was accused of unfairness, which was entirely rejected. I was accused of breaching an agreement, which was entirely rejected. I was accused of not representing the entirety of what I was doing with that broadcast to one of the individuals.
Mr. Mesereau: Kind of what you've been accused of here, right.
Mr. Boutrous: Objection.
Mr. Sneddon: Argumentative, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, how long was the film you did on Mr. Jackson.
Martin Bashir: The total duration.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, please.
Martin Bashir: I'm afraid I don't know in exact terms. It's some time -- it's over two years since the film was broadcast. I think it was around an hour and 15 minutes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many hours of footage did you obtain during the time you spent with Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Boutrous: Objection, Your Honor. Unpublished information, covered by the shield law and the First Amendment.
The Court: The objection is overruled. Do you wish to answer.
Martin Bashir: No, I don't.
The Court: Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know at all. Can't even estimate.
The Court: He doesn't --
Martin Bashir: That's not what I wish to answer.
The Court: He chose not to answer.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, I would move that the entire testimony be stricken and the prosecution's evidence be stricken.
The Court: That's denied.
Mr. Mesereau: I would ask for contempt, Your Honor.
The Court: The procedure that I'm going to follow I already outlined.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. For the record, Your Honor, could I have a running objection if he refuses to answer a question, or shall I make my request each time.
The Court: No, you don't need to do that. Let me just understand what we're having a running record about.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
The Court: If he -- if his attorney objects, and he declines to answer based on his attorney's advice, I will review that question for contempt proceedings without further necessity on your part to request that. Your motion to strike his entire testimony and evidence is denied.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Your Honor, could I have that be a running objection as well.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, you communicated with Mr. Jackson's assistant by letter before you began filming this show, correct.
Mr. Boutrous: Again, Your Honor, I object. It's unpublished information created and prepared in the course of news gathering and covered by the shield law and the First Amendment.
The Court: Do you wish to answer.
Martin Bashir: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection, Your Honor.
The Court: And I'll review the record.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, you wrote to Mr. Jackson's assistant and said you would very much like to feature Michael with a large group of children, around 50, welcoming them and sharing with them his extraordinary home so that, for one day, their lives can be enriched, correct.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objection, Your Honor.
The Court: Do you wish to --
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor -- excuse me. Could I add an objection to that also. Beyond the scope of direct examination.
The Court: Sustained as to beyond the scope of the direct examination.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, you interviewed Mr. Jackson and repeatedly asked him questions about his desire for an international children's holiday, correct.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objection, Your Honor, in that would seem to be beyond the scope of the direct examination as well.
The Court: Sustained as to beyond the scope.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, will the Court permit me to ask questions about what's actually on the tape.
The Court: No, because the tape's being introduced not for the truth of the matter asserted, but for a different purpose. There are some areas, however, that I didn't instruct the jury on about the assertions that they wish to have considered for the truth of the matter. And those would not be out of bounds, because -- well, let me ask the District Attorney. You do not intend to offer any other evidence of those statements that were the subject of the motion to have the Court consider the statements for the truth of the matter.
Mr. Sneddon: No, I think we outlined in our motion, and the Court made its ruling last week. Is that what you're referring to, Your Honor.
The Court: Well, I'm asking you, this is the only evidence you're going to have of those statements, so --
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, sir.
The Court: Then those statements open cross-examination as to those statements. Do you understand what I'm saying.
Mr. Mesereau: I think I do, Your Honor. The statements you had us isolate for purposes of constituting admissions --
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- is what you're talking about.
The Court: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: May I take a second just to obtain those.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you. While we're getting those, Your Honor, if I may, I'll just continue.
The Court: Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, you had Michael Jackson sign an agreement without a lawyer present, true.
Mr. Boutrous: Again, Your Honor, beyond the scope of the direct and covered by the shield law.
The Court: I'd overrule that objection. Will you answer that question.
Martin Bashir: Mr. Jackson signed two agreements in which he asked for no conditions whatsoever and agreed that I was free to make the film with him. And the first of those agreements was signed in November 2002, and the second agreement was signed in January 2003, just about two weeks prior to broadcast of the British version of the film that you've just seen.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, I would move to strike the answer and request that the Court order the witness to answer the question.
The Court: All right. It's stricken. And I'll ask the court reporter to read back the question so that you understand the question.
The Court Reporter: Mr. Bashir, you had Michael Jackson sign an agreement without a lawyer present, true.
Mr. Boutrous: I renew my objection, Your Honor. That goes to news gathering and relates to information prepared in connection with news gathering.
The Court: The objection is overruled. Do you wish to answer that.
Martin Bashir: I think I agree with my attorney that I have protections under the shield law, Your Honor.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection would be noted, Your Honor.
Mr. Sanger: I'm sorry, Your Honor, it's hard for Mr. Jackson and for us to hear the witness.
Martin Bashir: I apologize. It's my fault. Sorry. I'm sorry.
The Defendant: Speak up.
The Court: And, yes, you don't need to. I'm going to review all of the questions.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir --
The Court: If you want to, you can.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, you have been accused in England of forging signatures, correct.
Martin Bashir: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: No one has ever made that accusation, sir.
Mr. Boutrous: I'm going to object, Your Honor. Hearsay; lack of foundation; beyond the scope of direct examination.
The Court: Sustained on beyond the scope of direct.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, to qualify as a professional journalist, do you have to fulfill any particular educational program.
Martin Bashir: In the United States or in the United Kingdom, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Anywhere.
Martin Bashir: I'm frankly unsure about how that applies in the United States. And in the United Kingdom, there would be different ways of progressing your career. Some people would do it through the route of experience. And others would do it through some kind of academic qualification. I think others will have a mix of the two.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you do it.
Martin Bashir: A mix of the two.
Mr. Mesereau: Could you please explain that.
Martin Bashir: I was given training during my employment at the BBC. And I also took opportunities to work in print and radio journalism, so I combined the experience part with the training.
Mr. Mesereau: You are currently a paid legal analyst for ABC, correct.
Martin Bashir: Incorrect, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you a paid employee by ABC in any capacity.
Martin Bashir: I am, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Could you please tell the jury what that is.
Martin Bashir: I'm employed as a correspondent for ABC News, which is owned by Disney.
Mr. Mesereau: How long have you been paid as a correspondent for ABC.
Martin Bashir: My contract began on the 1st of September, last year.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you covering this case as a correspondent who is paid.
Mr. Boutrous: Objection, Your Honor, beyond the scope; and again, requiring him to cover news gathering activities is covered by the shield law.
The Court: Overruled. Do you wish to answer that question.
Martin Bashir: No, I don't, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection. Thank you.
The Court: Noted.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, if you look at the two documents you referred to that you say Mr. Jackson signed, his signature appears to be different from document to document, correct.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objection, Your Honor. And -- same objection on the shield law, Your Honor; and beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Sustained; beyond the scope.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, did you request that Michael Jackson bring Macauley Culkin so you could film him at Neverland.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objection under the shield law and the First Amendment, Your Honor. And beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Sustained on beyond the scope.
Mr. Mesereau: In the process of putting this film together, Mr. Bashir, did you write to Michael Jackson's assistant and say you wanted to film the beautiful landscape encouraging all of us to become as little children again.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object as beyond the scope.
The Court: You must let him finish his question before you interrupt. Don't interrupt is what I'm saying.
Mr. Boutrous: Could I just object, though. The scope of the direct is very clear. Mr. Mesereau knows what the scope of direct is. And now he's just knowingly asking questions that are beyond the scope of direct. And I would ask the Court to ask him to refrain from doing that. That would truncate the examination.
The Court: I would like to be able to hear the question he's asking so that I can make a reasoned ruling on his question.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir --
The Court: You had not finished the last question. Would you read back his answer as far as you got it. His question.
The Court Reporter: In the process of putting this film together, Mr. Bashir, did you write to Michael Jackson's assistant and say you wanted to film the beautiful landscape encouraging all of us to become as little children again.
The Court: Is that the complete question.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
The Court: And the objection.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objection. Beyond the scope of direct; shield law; First Amendment.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, did you, in the process of getting -- making contact with Mr. Jackson so you could make this film, misrepresent that you were putting together a trip to Africa for Mr. Jackson to visit sick children.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objection, Your Honor. Beyond the scope of direct; shield law; First Amendment.
The Court: I'll sustain the objection; beyond the scope of direct.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, did you allow Mr. Jackson any editorial control over this film.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objections, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection beyond the scope is sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, before this film was shown - and I'm talking about the actual film itself, not generally speaking. I'm talking about what the prosecution has used in this courtroom today, all right. - did you watch that actual reel.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objections. Beyond the scope; shield law; First Amendment.
Mr. Mesereau: I think we're discussing authentication, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection is overruled. Do you want the question read back.
Martin Bashir: Yes, please, Your Honor.
The Court Reporter: Mr. Bashir, before this film was shown - and I'm talking about the actual film itself, not generally speaking. I'm talking about what the prosecution has used in this courtroom today, all right. - did you watch that actual reel.
Martin Bashir: I don't wish to answer the question. The question is -- is protected under the shield law.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, I would --
The Court: Maybe you didn't understand the question. I hope I did. The question is, did you watch this reel right here, just before we showed it.
Martin Bashir: Today.
The Court: Today.
Martin Bashir: Oh. I'm happy to answer that question, Your Honor.
The Court: Is that your question.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: Okay.
Martin Bashir: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike the prosecutor's evidence and testimony as being unauthenticated.
The Court: I'll take that under advisement. I'll have to go back and look at it.
Mr. Mesereau: Before you testified today, did you discuss your testimony with Prosecutor Sneddon.
Martin Bashir: I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Before you testified today, did you discuss your testimony with anyone.
Martin Bashir: I had private discussions with my attorney.
Mr. Mesereau: Other than your attorney, before you testified today, did you discuss what you were going to say with anybody.
Martin Bashir: No.
Mr. Mesereau: No one with your company.
Martin Bashir: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never mentioned it to any other journalists, Mr. Bashir.
Martin Bashir: Today.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, sir.
Martin Bashir: I haven't been with any other journalists, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: How about yesterday.
Martin Bashir: I wasn't with any journalists yesterday, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you discussed with any other journalist at any time what you were going to say in this courtroom in this case, Mr. Bashir.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, what's the materiality of this question. That has nothing to do with the direct examination.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Martin Bashir: The only -- I've discussed this case with my attorney.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, when did you receive a subpoena in this case, Mr. Bashir.
Martin Bashir: At the beginning of this year.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you telling this jury, under oath, that since you received a subpoena, or since you knew you received a subpoena, till today, you've never discussed what you were going to say with anyone other than your attorney.
Martin Bashir: I'm trying very hard to remember so that I can be accurate, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: You can take your time.
Martin Bashir: Thank you. As far as my recollection goes, I recall discussing the matter with my attorney.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me state the question again, because you may not have understood it. You learned you had received a subpoena when.
Martin Bashir: At the beginning of this year.
Mr. Mesereau: Since you learned you had received a subpoena, have you ever discussed the fact that you were going to be a witness with anyone other than your attorney.
Mr. Boutrous: Your Honor, I'm going to object. That's a different question than discussing what he was going to say. I'm not sure how he could discuss what he was going to say before the trial.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection, Your Honor. These are speaking objections. This is improper form.
The Court: The objection's overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: You're free to answer.
The Court: And I can have it read back for you.
Martin Bashir: That's okay, Your Honor. Thank you. I'm happy to state that I discussed the matter with my attorney.
Mr. Mesereau: You may be happy to say that, sir, but would you please answer the question.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, that's argumentative.
The Court: Sustained. Read the question back to him, please.
The Court Reporter: Since you learned you had received a subpoena, have you ever discussed the fact that you were going to be a witness with anyone other than your attorney.
Martin Bashir: I discussed the matter with my attorney, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, could I ask that the witness be ordered to respond to the question.
The Court: You haven't quite answered it.
Martin Bashir: I understand, Your Honor. The difficulty is I want to be completely accurate in my answers, unequivocal and clear. And what I know for certain is that I have discussed the matter with my attorney.
The Court: And no one else.
Martin Bashir: I'm pretty sure that's the case, but I can't -- I can't be as unequivocal as I'd like to be, and that's why I'm hesitant.
The Court: Okay. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: Correct me if I'm wrong, Mr. Bashir - and I might be - you do not have a clear recollection of telling any other journalist, since you learned you had a subpoena, that you're going to be a witness in this case, right.
Martin Bashir: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to that question. That was not the question that was asked.
Mr. Mesereau: It's another question.
Mr. Sneddon: Then the framing of the question is improper.
Mr. Mesereau: It's not improper, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection is overruled. I'm going to have the question read back. Whenever there's an argument like that --
Martin Bashir: Thank you.
The Court: -- we lose the question.
The Court Reporter: Correct me if I'm wrong, Mr. Bashir - and I might be - you do not have a clear recollection of telling any other journalist, since you learned you had a subpoena, that you're going to be a witness in this case, right.
Martin Bashir: The fact of my subpoena, sir, was published in various forms of media, so that everybody knew that I had been subpoenaed as a result of that. It is possible that during my work for ABC, I may have mentioned that I had been subpoenaed. If you are suggesting that I had a detailed discussion about what I was going to say, that is completely untrue. But it is possible -- as I say, I wish to be as clear as I can, but it is possible that I mentioned the fact of my subpoena to my colleagues.
Mr. Mesereau: But as you sit here today, you just don't remember ever mentioning it to any particular colleague, true.
Martin Bashir: That's not what I said.
Mr. Mesereau: What are you saying.
Mr. Boutrous: Asked and answered; and argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll restate it, Your Honor, if it will make it easier.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, are you telling this jury, under oath, that you don't have a clear recollection of ever telling any journalist that you were going to be a witness in this case.
Martin Bashir: Sir, what I said was, that news of the subpoena was published broadly and wide, internationally. And as I returned to my core task at ABC News, I may have mentioned the fact that I had received a subpoena.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you telling this jury that you don't have a clear recollection of ever telling any particular journalist that you were going to be a witness in this case; yes or no, Mr. Bashir.
Martin Bashir: Sir --
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object to that. It's argumentative.
The Court: I'm going to sustain the objection, only because you said, “Are you telling this jury”, as opposed to just asking a question.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it.
The Court: Everybody is telling this jury everything. They're sitting right there.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, do you recall telling any particular journalist that you were going to be a witness in this case.
Martin Bashir: As I've said, news of my subpoena was published. And I'm quite sure that it's possible that I may have mentioned the fact that I had received a subpoena in relation to these proceedings. What I am -- your earlier question, which slightly confused me, was that you were suggesting that I may have had a discussion with individuals about the content of what I would say.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, please tell us if you don't understand the question. Okay.
Martin Bashir: Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever telling any journalist that you were going to be a witness in this case; yes or no.
Martin Bashir: I've answered the question.
Mr. Mesereau: May I ask that the witness be instructed to answer the question, Your Honor.
The Court: You have not answered the question. Would you answer the question.
Martin Bashir: My answer to the question, Your Honor, is that I cannot specifically recollect a time, a day, and an individual with whom I had a detailed discussion about the subject of my subpoena. What I am saying is it is perfectly possible that it was mentioned to me, or by me, as I returned to work.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, I'm not asking you about day or time. I'm just asking you if at any time you told any journalist that you're going to be a witness in the case.
Martin Bashir: It's possible.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you saying under oath you don't recall any specific individual that you spoke to about that.
Martin Bashir: That's what I'm saying, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And you don't recall any specific journalist you ever told, “I'm going to be a witness in the Michael Jackson case”.
Martin Bashir: I just can't be specific, I'm afraid, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Is your office in New York with ABC.
Martin Bashir: It is, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Are there other offices near your office at ABC.
Martin Bashir: There are, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Are there journalists who occupy those offices at ABC, Mr. Bashir.
Martin Bashir: There are, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you tend to chat with those journalists from time to time, sir.
Martin Bashir: I have a private office. And I tend to spend a large amount of time out on the road. So opportunities to talk like that are not very frequent.
Mr. Mesereau: Whose office is next to yours at ABC.
Mr. Boutrous: Your Honor, I'm going to object on relevance grounds and beyond the scope of direct, and asked and answered, and many things.
The Court: The problem is, Counsel, that he said that he only spoke to his attorney about this, and he has a privilege which we all understand. The reason I have not sustained objections is, counsel has been exploring whether or not he spoke to anyone else about that besides his attorney. But guess what. It's time for a break.
Martin Bashir: Thank you, Your Honor.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: You may proceed.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, I'd like to ask you some questions about some statements of Michael Jackson that Judge Melville has deemed to be legal admissions. They are statements that were contained in your show. To obtain those statements, you told Michael Jackson he was underappreciated, true.
Mr. Boutrous: Objection, Your Honor. Covered by the shield law; beyond the scope of direct; and covered by the First Amendment.
The Court: Just so you know, I was going to allow him to go outside of direct for these issues rather than have your client come back on some other date. There have been hearings outside the presence of the jury concerning these statements.
Mr. Boutrous: Your Honor, then I would request that Mr. Mesereau be limited to nonleading questions, since he will be handling this as a direct witness. And I'll continue to make my objections, but if he's going outside the scope, I would request that.
Mr. Sneddon: Judge, I have a further comment. In fairness to Mr. Bashir, perhaps he should have the statements in front of him, so he knows which ones they are, since we've just watched an hour and a half of the video. He has the disadvantage from us, I think.
The Court: Well, I think the witness right now is Mr. Mesereau's. I'll allow him to conduct the examination as he chooses.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll repeat the question, Mr. Bashir. To obtain statements from Mr. Jackson, you told him he was underappreciated, correct.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objections, Your Honor. Plus, leading question.
The Court: The Court will sustain the objection for ambiguity.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, to obtain an interview with Mr. Jackson, you told him you were a friend of Princess Diana, correct.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objections, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection being, when you say “same objection” --
Mr. Boutrous: First, impermissible leading question; beyond the scope of the direct elicited by the District Attorney. In addition, it seeks unpublished information connected to news gathering prepared and gained during news gathering. Conversations with the source is news gathering. So I would invoke the California shield law and the First Amendment.
The Court: Here's the problem, Mr. Mesereau: You're back to the general question on the whole tape, the whole thing. And my prior statement that the question was ambiguous is that he doesn't know what statements you're talking about. So --
Mr. Mesereau: I will --
The Court: -- if you would --
Mr. Mesereau: I could refer to some statements, Your Honor.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, in the show you prepared, which we've just seen, Mr. Jackson made statements to the effect that nothing sexual was going on in his bed, correct.
Martin Bashir: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: To obtain the interview you had with Mr. Jackson when he made that statement, you told him that he was underappreciated, true.
Mr. Boutrous: Objection, Your Honor, on the shield law grounds and First Amendment grounds, unpublished information, and the tape that the jury has seen speaks for itself.
The Court: All right. The objection is overruled. Do you wish to answer that question.
Martin Bashir: I'm standing on the broadest privilege and the shield law, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection noted, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, in the show about Michael Jackson, Mr. Jackson says that nothing sexual went on in his bedroom. To obtain that statement, you told Mr. Jackson that your romantic development was partially shaped by his records, true.
Mr. Boutrous: Objection, Your Honor. Same grounds. First Amendment; shield law.
The Court: Do you wish to answer that question.
Martin Bashir: No, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. The objection is noted.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, on the show we just saw in this courtroom, Mr. Jackson says that nothing sexual goes on in his bedroom. To obtain that statement from Mr. Jackson, you told him that when you looked at his relationship with children, it almost made you weep, correct.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objections, Your Honor. California shield law and the First Amendment. And I object to that question as being ambiguous as well, the first phrase, “to obtain that statement”. Object to that.
The Court: The objection is overruled. Do you wish to answer that.
Martin Bashir: I don't, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection noted, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, on your show, Mr. Jackson says that nothing sexual ever went on in his bedroom. To obtain that statement from him, you told him that you believe in his vision of an international children's holiday, correct.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objections, Your Honor. The shield law and the First Amendment.
The Court: Overruled. Do you wish to answer that question.
Martin Bashir: I don't, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection noted, Your Honor.
The Court: Noted.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, in this interview you did of Michael Jackson, he says that nothing sexual went on in his bedroom. To obtain that statement, you told him, “Neverland is an extraordinary, a breathtaking, a stupendous, an exhilarating and amazing place. I can't put together words to describe Neverland”. True.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objections, Your Honor. First Amendment and the California shield law.
The Court: Do you wish to answer that question.
Martin Bashir: I don't, Your Honor.
The Court: Noted; objection noted.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, to prepare the show you've just shown the jury where Michael Jackson says nothing sexual went on in his bedroom, you told him that you had an abiding sense that he is selfless and a most generous person, correct.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objections, Your Honor.
The Court: Do you wish to answer that question.
Martin Bashir: I don't, Your Honor.
The Court: Noted.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor. Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, to obtain the statement from Mr. Jackson that nothing sexual goes on in his bedroom, you described Neverland as a beautiful landscape encouraging all of us to become as little children again, true.
Mr. Boutrous: Objection, Your Honor, and I want to repeat my objection on the leading question ground, and I believe the improper form of the question, and again, reassert the California shield law's protection of unpublished information prepared and gathered in news gathering, and the First Amendment.
The Court: The objection's overruled. Do you wish to answer.
Martin Bashir: I don't, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, to obtain Michael Jackson's statement that nothing sexual goes on in his bedroom with children, you complimented him for what he does for disadvantaged children from the ghetto, true.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objections, Your Honor.
The Court: Do you wish to answer.
Martin Bashir: I don't, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection is noted.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor. I just need to get one notebook, if I can, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, to obtain the statement from Mr. Jackson that nothing sexual went on in his bedroom with children, you told him that you were going to arrange a meeting with Kofi Annan, the Secretary General of the United Nations, and would plan a trip to Africa with Mr. Jackson and Kofi Annan to help African children with AIDS, true.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objections, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection is overruled. Do you wish to answer.
Martin Bashir: I don't, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection is noted.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, to obtain Mr. Jackson's statement that nothing sexual ever went on in his bedroom with children, you told him that you had great admiration for his visiting sick children in hospitals in England, true.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objections, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection's overruled. Do you wish to answer.
Martin Bashir: I don't, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection's noted.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, I would like to ask you further questions about how you obtained Michael Jackson's statement that nothing ever goes on in his bedroom that is sexual with children. Do you intend to not answer any questions along those lines.
Mr. Boutrous: Let me just say that I intend to continue making the same objections, if Mr. Mesereau is seeking to short-circuit the process - the First Amendment, the shield law - if that's helpful.
The Court: Do you intend to follow your counsel's advice on those issues.
Martin Bashir: I do, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, I would like to ask you questions about other statements Mr. Jackson made in your interview, and I would like to ask you about how you got face to face with him to obtain those statements. Are you saying that you are not going to respond to any such questions.
Martin Bashir: I'm --
Mr. Boutrous: Just to make clear, he's doing so based on my assertions of the California shield law protecting the independence of journalists, as well as the First Amendment.
The Court: You would continue to object on those questions.
Mr. Boutrous: I would indeed, Your Honor. Thank you.
The Court: Would you continue to follow your counsel's advice.
Martin Bashir: I would, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection noted, Your Honor.
The Court: Noted.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, in the process of attempting to obtain statements from Mr. Jackson, you called him “the boss”, didn't you.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objections.
The Court: The objection's overruled. Do you wish to answer that.
Martin Bashir: I don't, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection's noted.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, do you intend to not answer any question I ask you on cross-examination in this trial.
Mr. Boutrous: To preserve the record, Your Honor, I will continue to object on the grounds which we believe are well-founded. And Mr. Bashir is acting on my instruction and my objections under the California Constitution and the U.S. Constitution.
The Court: Do you intend to follow his advice on all questions relating to this interview and the trial.
Martin Bashir: I do, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, have the answers you actually have given been 100 percent truthful.
Martin Bashir: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know for sure.
Martin Bashir: I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, while you were obtaining statements from Mr. Jackson, someone named Hamid Moslehi was present, true.
Mr. Boutrous: I reassert the objection I made during direct, Your Honor, which was First Amendment and California law. It's unpublished information. Observations of a journalist during the journalistic process is protected under the California shield law, including people who are in public places.
The Court: Do you wish to follow your counsel's advice --
Martin Bashir: I do, Your Honor.
The Court: -- and not answer the question.
Martin Bashir: I do, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection's noted.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, in preparing for your testimony today, did you discuss what answers you would give with anyone other than your lawyer.
Martin Bashir: No.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, has anyone from the District Attorney's Office ever tried to contact you about your testimony in this case.
Martin Bashir: No.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, has anyone from the District Attorney's Office tried to get -- excuse me, to communicate with any representatives -- any representative of yours regarding your testimony in this case.
Mr. Boutrous: Your Honor, I will object, to the extent that calls for the attorney-client communication or attorney work product.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, have you discussed your testimony today with any representative of the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Office.
Martin Bashir: I have not, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you provided any statements to anyone associated with the prosecution.
Martin Bashir: I have not, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Among the journalists you associate with at ABC, have you ever discussed with any of them what you were going to say in this courtroom.
Martin Bashir: I don't believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't think so. Mr. Bashir, do you know for sure whether or not you ever discussed with any journalist at ABC what you were going to say in this courtroom.
Mr. Boutrous: Asked and answered, Your Honor.
The Court: I'm not sure it is. I'll have to go back to that series of questions. But I'm willing to do that, if you want.
Mr. Boutrous: I think he asked this question many times, if I'm hearing it correctly.
The Court: I think -- I think it's a little different, but let me look.
Mr. Boutrous: Okay.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer, but I'll have the question read back. It's been a while.
The Court Reporter: You don't think so. Mr. Bashir, do you know for sure whether or not you ever discussed with any journalist at ABC what you were going to say in this courtroom.
Martin Bashir: As far as I can recollect, I don't think I discussed what I was going to say in this courtroom, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: You used the words “as far as I can recollect”. Is that correct.
Martin Bashir: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you saying you have no present recollection of ever speaking with any journalist about what you were going to say in this courtroom.
Martin Bashir: That's correct, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Is it possible you had a recollection at some other point in time about who you had spoken to.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, that calls for speculation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, did you review any documents to prepare for your testimony today.
Martin Bashir: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, has anyone from the District Attorney's Office sent you any documents regarding this case.
Martin Bashir: No, they have not, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you ever spoken to District Attorney Thomas Sneddon.
Martin Bashir: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Never said hello to him.
Martin Bashir: I think I may have said hello to him today.
Mr. Mesereau: When you arrived at court this morning, were you taken to any office associated with the District Attorney.
Martin Bashir: I was taken -- I was taken to an office. I don't know if it was the District Attorney's Office, but I was taken with my attorneys to an office where we waited, because you were in session this morning. So we were waiting.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you got here today, did you meet anyone from the District Attorney's Office.
Martin Bashir: Not to my knowledge. We were -- we were -- we were given access by a female member of staff. We were left in a room. And when we were required to come down, we were invited to do so.
Mr. Mesereau: When you arrived, to your knowledge, did you meet anyone associated with the District Attorney's Office.
Martin Bashir: To my knowledge, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did anyone come up to you and introduce themselves as from the District Attorney's Office.
Martin Bashir: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you met any of the prosecutors who are sitting here today on a prior occasion.
Martin Bashir: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet them today for the first time.
Martin Bashir: I did, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you ever spoken to any of them on the telephone.
Martin Bashir: Not the prosecutors, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How about the sheriffs.
Martin Bashir: I received a phone call from a police officer sometime ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Who was that.
Martin Bashir: Detective Paul Zelis.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you speak to him on the telephone.
Martin Bashir: I did, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when did you speak to Detective Paul Zelis on the telephone.
Martin Bashir: It was prior -- it was prior to my arrival at ABC, so it would have been during 2004.
Mr. Mesereau: Where were you when he called you.
Martin Bashir: I was in England.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you speak to him in England.
Martin Bashir: I did, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: How long was the phone conversation.
Martin Bashir: Very brief.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you ever spoken to him since.
Martin Bashir: No, but he did call again. He did call and leave a message, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Is he the only person from the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Office you've spoken to.
Martin Bashir: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know for sure.
Martin Bashir: Yes, I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Has anyone from the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Office, to your knowledge, sent you any documents to review.
Martin Bashir: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Who made arrangements for you to come here today, to your knowledge.
Mr. Boutrous: Objection to the extent it's an attorney-client communication or work-product issue, Your Honor.
The Court: To the extent it is, I'll sustain the objection.
Mr. Boutrous: I made his hotel reservation.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, in how many locations did the filming take place that appears in your show.
Mr. Boutrous: Objection, Your Honor. Again, the film speaks for itself. It was on screen. The jury's seen it. Anything else is unpublished information covered by the shield law.
The Court: The objection is overruled. Do you wish to answer that.
Martin Bashir: The evidence of where we were filming was clear from the film, from the documentary which has just been shown.
Mr. Mesereau: Could I ask that the witness be instructed to answer, Your Honor.
The Court: You did not answer the question. Do you wish to answer the question.
Martin Bashir: Yes.
Mr. Boutrous: I will reassert my objections under the shield law, Your Honor. Again, it's just classic unpublished information. The film speaks for itself.
The Court: All right. Your objection is overruled. Do you wish to answer the question.
Martin Bashir: No, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection's noted.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you fly to these locations with Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objection, Your Honor. First Amendment; shield law.
The Court: The objection's overruled. Do you wish to answer.
Martin Bashir: No, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection's noted.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you travel by car to any of the locations where you filmed any footage that appears in this documentary with Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Boutrous: Same objections, Your Honor. And I think in the last series of questions Mr. Mesereau's has veered back into being far beyond the scope of direct, so I will again assert that that question was beyond the scope of direct examination, as were the last several.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Bashir, after this show appeared, you were sued by Mr. Jackson in England, correct.
Mr. Boutrous: Again, Your Honor, beyond the scope of direct and --
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Boutrous: Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, in light of the refusal to answer questions, I'm going to terminate my cross-examination. But I would ask that the Court order this witness back to appear as a defense witness.
The Court: I will order you to return at a time when the defense requests that you return. Is that a satisfactory -- I'm assuming -- I don't mean to say, “Is that satisfactory”. I mean, is it a satisfactory way of handling -- if you're willing to have your client appear and he's willing to appear on notice by the defense, then I'll release him under our normal convenience-type subpoenas. If not, I'd have to have him appear at a certain date to retain jurisdiction.
Mr. Boutrous: Your Honor - if I may step up here. Thank you - I guess two things: The defense has known for several weeks that the prosecutors had subpoenaed Mr. Bashir. And they had indicated they had put Mr. Bashir on their witness list, and I argued that the defense had not made the showing. I put them on notice that I planned to invoke the shield law and the First Amendment and that there were standards for them to meet. And they knew Mr. Bashir was going to be here. And for them now -- he lives part of the time in the United Kingdom, part of the time in New York. To now make him come back seems unfair and burdensome, particularly without the defense making the requisite showing that they need to make in terms of necessity of his testimony, lack of alternative sources, the tests that they would need to make to justify piercing the reporter's privilege. So I would ask the Court to reject that request.
The Court: I'll modify my order. I will order him to return. However, I will require the defense to file the appropriate application for subpoena, with the reasons, and allow you to file an opposition to that. But to just short-circuit the problem of actually serving him, I'll order him to appear under those conditions I've previously announced, unless we advise him otherwise, if you succeed on your motion.
Mr. Boutrous: That makes sense, Your Honor. And just to clarify on the questions today, I think there were a number that he declined to answer on the shield law grounds. And I wanted to clarify that my objections also go to the questions being beyond the scope of direct testimony and wanted to clarify and make sure that we would have a chance to brief these issues, before the Court makes a contempt ruling, to try to either --
The Court: Oh, absolutely.
Mr. Boutrous: Thank you, Your Honor.
The Court: The procedure I would intend to follow would be as indicated. I'll review the transcript and the law. If it appears that he's in contempt or -- I will issue a contempt citation, and then you'll have your opportunity to be heard.
Mr. Boutrous: I just would like to have the chance to persuade you that the information was protected and no contempt citation should be issued before any contempt finding.
The Court: I will give you that opportunity.
Mr. Boutrous: Thank you, Your Honor.
The Court: I think we're talking about the same thing. There's a difference between citing him so you can speak to me through your written pleadings, and holding him in contempt. I'm not going to do the latter without giving you an opportunity to be heard.
Mr. Boutrous: Thank you, Your Honor. And my apologies to the jury for not having more creative or different objections every time. But thank you very much, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Do you have further questions.
Mr. Sneddon: I think not, Your Honor.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down. You're not excused. You're on call subject to the arrangements that I've made with your counsel. Should you no longer need this counsel, you have the direct personal responsibility to me to return if I ask you to. Do you understand that.
Martin Bashir: I do, Your Honor.
The Court: Okay.
Mr. Boutrous: Thank you, Your Honor.
The Court: Call your next witness.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you, Your Honor. Our next witness will be Ann Kite, and she is on her way down from our office.
The Court: When you get to the witness stand, remain standing. Face the clerk and raise your right hand.
Message: ANN KITE Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Ann Kite: Yes, I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Ann Kite: My name is Ann Marie Kite, K-i-t-e. But I use Ann Gabriel as my professional name.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Good afternoon, Ms. Kite.
Ann Kite: Good afternoon.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you tell me who you work for, please.
Ann Kite: Currently.
Mr. Auchincloss: Currently, yes.
Ann Kite: I am the president of an organization called the Webcaster Alliance.
Mr. Auchincloss: What is Webcaster Alliance.
Ann Kite: Webcaster Alliance is a group of webcasters who play music on the Internet.
Mr. Auchincloss: How long have you been employed with Webcaster.
Ann Kite: Well, the organization's been in association for about two years, since 2002.
Mr. Auchincloss: And in what capacity are you employed.
Ann Kite: President.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what are your duties as president of Webcaster Alliance.
Ann Kite: To help move forward legislation to make it easier for people to be able to produce music and information on the Internet. Also to help people produce programming.
Mr. Auchincloss: At sometime prior to -- well, maybe at the same time. At some point previously, were you the president of an organization called Gabriel Media.
Ann Kite: Yes, that's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: What was Gabriel Media.
Ann Kite: Gabriel Media was a public relations firm and a marketing firm.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what was your role in Gabriel Media.
Ann Kite: To help people and products get their information out to the public.
Mr. Auchincloss: Basically PR.
Ann Kite: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Public relations.
Ann Kite: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you had a background in public relations.
Ann Kite: Yes, I have.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you describe that for me, please.
Ann Kite: Sure. For about the last 20 to 25 years I've been involved in a number of different businesses, all with the intention of helping people meet, take their products and move them to the public, to help them look better, to help them market themselves better.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you have a background that qualified you for that position.
Ann Kite: Life experience. A lot of life experience. I've worked in a number of different businesses, specifically with products, to help people and their products reach the public.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. So when you say 20 years of experience in public relations, can you elaborate on that for me a little bit.
Ann Kite: Certainly. I've had a number of different clients. For example, I went through a period where I did a lot of things with technology, high technology. Consumer products; both Sony and JVC, Panasonic. Those types of things. Then I also worked with some people who might be considered personalities, where I helped them to define their image to the public. I helped them if they got into a difficult position with their image in the public, and helped them make a plan to move themselves forward.
Mr. Auchincloss: When you say “personalities”, does that include celebrities.
Ann Kite: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Can you tell me what the term “crisis management” means.
Ann Kite: Well, crisis management is a different type of public relations. Crisis management comes about when you have someone, or a product or a person, who gets into a situation that is unexpected. And in the case of crisis management, you have to do a couple of different things. First of all, you want to try to analyze the assets of the client or the product, and then also their vulnerabilities, what areas might they be attacked on. And so crisis management is the - for lack of a better term - the difficult part of public relations, the difficult part of trying to help someone present themselves or their product to the public.
Mr. Auchincloss: What do you mean when you say “the assets of a client”.
Ann Kite: Well, any client or any product has assets, the things that are good about them, the thing that the public perceives good about them.
Mr. Auchincloss: In general terms, can you tell me what the goal of a public relations specialist is.
Ann Kite: In general terms, on the best days, it is to make sure that your client's product, or their person, the personality, is always presented in the best light to the public.
Mr. Auchincloss: And the purpose for that would be.
Ann Kite: So that they can create things for themselves, whether they want to create more assets as far as dollarwise, entertainment value, or whatever it is they're trying to sell. If it's themselves that they're trying to sell, you want to make sure they're always presented in the best light.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is it fair to say that a celebrity's image is his stock in trade for purposes of marketability and selling whatever entertainment that that particular celebrity is involved in.
Ann Kite: Oh, yes, absolutely.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection, leading.
Mr. Auchincloss: It's foundational, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled. The answer was yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know an individual by the name of David LeGrand.
Ann Kite: Yes, I do.
Mr. Auchincloss: Ms. Kite -- Ms. Kite, I show you People's Exhibit No. 3. Can you identify that for me, please.
Ann Kite: Yes, that's David LeGrand.
Mr. Auchincloss: Move to admit People's 3, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Auchincloss: How do you know David LeGrand.
Ann Kite: David and I met in March of 2002, and we worked together on several projects.
Mr. Auchincloss: What is Mr. LeGrand's occupation.
Ann Kite: He's an attorney.
Mr. Auchincloss: How did you meet him.
Ann Kite: We met through a mutual friend.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And what projects did you work on.
Ann Kite: Well, we worked on Webcaster Alliance together. David had a client that had some products that they were looking to sell, and he wanted me to look at their business plan and see how I could help them move forward with it, do some public relations with them on that. And then, of course, with Michael Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Was Mr. LeGrand affiliated with Webcaster Alliance.
Ann Kite: Yes, he was.
Mr. Auchincloss: In what capacity.
Ann Kite: He was a director.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what were the other associations you had with him in a business sense.
Ann Kite: Well, we worked together in Washington D.C. to put together legislation for webcasters.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was that it.
Ann Kite: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Did you have a personal relationship with Mr. LeGrand.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: And when did that begin.
Ann Kite: In July of 2002.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did that end at some point.
Ann Kite: Yes, at the end of January of 2003.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Was that a dating relationship --
Ann Kite: Yes, it was.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- something of that nature.
Ann Kite: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm sorry, I didn't write down the date. When did you say it ended.
Ann Kite: At the end of January of 2003.
Mr. Auchincloss: In January of 2003 -- well, let me back up. You mentioned an affiliation with Mr. LeGrand concerning Michael Jackson.
Ann Kite: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: When did that begin.
Ann Kite: I don't understand your question. When was the first time that he mentioned anything to me about Michael Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: When did you -- well, let me back up. Did Mr. LeGrand himself become associated with Michael Jackson at some point.
Ann Kite: Yes, he did.
Mr. Auchincloss: When was that.
Ann Kite: Officially.
Mr. Auchincloss: As far as you know. In any fashion, let's start there.
Ann Kite: As far as I knew --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection, hearsay and foundation.
The Court: Foundation's sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
Mr. Auchincloss: At some point, did David LeGrand recruit you to go to work for Michael Jackson.
Ann Kite: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: I can rephrase.
Mr. Auchincloss: At some time did Mr. LeGrand ask to employ you, to come work for Michael Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Hearsay.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Ann Kite: Yes, he did.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And when was that.
Ann Kite: At the end of January of 2003.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did you go to work for Michael Jackson.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: When you say the end of January 2003 was when Mr. LeGrand approached you, do you have the approximate dates.
Ann Kite: It was around the 27th -- the 26th, the 27th of January.
Mr. Auchincloss: In what capacity were you -- were you employed.
Ann Kite: Public relations.
Mr. Auchincloss: And at some point did you actually go to work for Michael Jackson.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: When was that.
Ann Kite: February 9th of 2003.
Mr. Auchincloss: As a public relations employee for Michael Jackson, what was your -- what was your job. What were you hired to do.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Misstates the evidence.
The Court: The preamble to the question.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: What were you hired to do.
Ann Kite: To help with image management.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And was there a specific reason why Michael Jackson's image needed to be managed.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were you informed as to what your duty was to manage Michael Jackson's public relations image.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading.
The Court: The objection's overruled. But you can only answer yes or no to that question. Do you want the question --
Ann Kite: Yes.
The Court: Oh, you answered.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And what were you told.
Ann Kite: I was told that there would --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Hearsay.
The Court: Still foundation also as to who told you.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And that's where we're -- okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who told you what your assignment was to be as a public relations employee for Michael Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation and hearsay; it misstates the evidence.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Ann Kite: Initially it was David LeGrand.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And what did Mr. LeGrand tell you your duties were.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Hearsay; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Ann Kite: To help with the fallout from the Martin Bashir video.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. What did you understand your duties were at that point.
Ann Kite: To immediately begin protecting Mr. Jackson's reputation.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you research the issue, the problem.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you evaluate the problem.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you come up with a plan of attack.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading and privilege.
The Court: The leading is overruled. The other one I don't understand.
Mr. Mesereau: She's retained by a law firm. She's not supposed to be --
The Court: You're raising that privilege.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. She's not supposed to be violating her duty of confidentiality.
The Court: Do you want to address the attorney-client privilege.
Mr. Auchincloss: The attorney-client privilege has already been divulged to us, number one. Number two, counsel has not established that she was acting as an agency on behalf of the law firm in a legal capacity. This is an area that probably, if counsel wants to make that objection, he should have it briefed and address the Court with points and authorities on it. In addition, Your Honor, I can --
Mr. Mesereau: She says she was hired by an attorney for Mr. Jackson, Your Honor. Mr. Jackson's never met her.
The Court: All right. The objection's overruled. You may proceed.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
Mr. Auchincloss: So, my last question, if I can recall it correctly was, what was the plan that you formulated to approach -- well, let me back up. Let me just start at the beginning here. You said you formulated an assessment of the problem. How did you go about doing that.
Ann Kite: Well, I took a look at a lot of the press that was coming out, the information that was out in the media. I looked at what was being played most prominently, and figured that that was probably the most vulnerable area of attack for Mr. Jackson at that point. So I began to formulate a plan, based on my information of things that had come out in the press in the past, and to immediately try to take the focus off of Mr. Jackson's frailties as a human and put them back on his genius as a musician. That was my plan.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Did you sign a contract to come on as a PR specialist.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: When did you do that. When was that contract signed.
Ann Kite: In the afternoon of the 14th of February.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you become familiar with any other individuals who were also hired to work on the same problem.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you communicate with them.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who were these people.
Ann Kite: Ronald Konitzer. Marc Schaffel. Stuart Backerman. Melanie Riley. And Richard, I think it's Eldon, from Bell Yard. And a team of some other attorneys in the United K -- United Kingdom.
Mr. Auchincloss: During the course of your employment for Mr. Jackson, did you communicate with these individuals.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you communicate directly with Ronald Konitzer.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: In what fashion. In what medium.
Ann Kite: Both by e-mail and by telephone.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you contact and speak directly with Marc Schaffel.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you also communicate with him by e-mail.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: How about Mr. Backerman.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever talk to an attorney by the name of Mark Geragos.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who did you report to. Who did you report to in terms of the hierarchy of this team.
Ann Kite: Well, I spoke to David. I spoke to Marc Schaffel. I spoke to Mr. Geragos. And I spoke to Ronald.
Mr. Auchincloss: So would it be fair to say, you reported to all of those four individuals.
Ann Kite: Yes, at different times.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Mr. Konitzer, did you have an understanding of what his function was in relation to Michael Jackson.
Ann Kite: I understood that Mr. Konitzer was the lead --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; and foundation.
The Court: Foundation; sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: It's a yes or no question. I would follow with foundation.
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection.
The Court: All right. I'll allow a yes or no answer. Do you want the question read back.
Ann Kite: Yes, please.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. The question --
The Court: The court reporter will read it back. Thank you.
The Court Reporter: And Mr. Konitzer, did you have an understanding of what his function was in relation to Michael Jackson.
Ann Kite: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And what was it that you based that opinion on, or that assessment on.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading and foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Ann Kite: On information that David had given me.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Did you also base it on information that you obtained in the course of conversing with Mr. Konitzer.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Mr. Schaffel.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you base it on information that you obtained by way of e-mails from other members of the team.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: And from Bell Yard.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was it clear from -- clear to you -- well, did you also base it upon the conduct of all of these individuals on the team that you previously mentioned.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; foundation.
The Court: Sustained; leading.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you consider conduct as part of this assessment.
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And based on all this information, did you form a belief or an understanding as to what Mr. Ronald Konitzer's role was in relation to Michael Jackson and this team that you've described.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: What was that.
Ann Kite: That he was the leader.
Mr. Auchincloss: Also based on all that information that I've asked you about, were you able to form an opinion as to what Mr. Schaffel's role was in this team.
Ann Kite: Yes. Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what was that.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Ann Kite: That he was in charge of the public relations effort for Michael Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: Same question as to Mr. Backerman. Based on all the information you obtained during the course of your employment, were you able to form an assessment or did you obtain an understanding of what Mr. Stuart Backerman's role was.
Ann Kite: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what was that.
Ann Kite: That he was the spokesperson for Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: What's a spokesperson in the PR realm.
Ann Kite: Well, in Mr. Backerman's case, it was my understanding that he would be the one that would, for the most part, get out and speak in front of the press.
Mr. Auchincloss: So the actual face person that would be in front of the camera.
Ann Kite: For the most part, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. You previously said that you assessed the problem based upon your review of what.
Ann Kite: The information that was coming out in the press.
Mr. Auchincloss: Uh-huh.
Ann Kite: The information that was coming from the Bashir documentary.
Mr. Auchincloss: Uh-huh.
Ann Kite: And the bombardment of questions that were coming from people in the press that were looking to delve into other aspects of Mr. Jackson's empire.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
The Court: All right. We're going to stop for the afternoon.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
The Court: I have a couple of points I want to address. One is that the District Attorney must lodge a transcript of the videotape that was played today with the Court as soon as you can.
Mr. Sneddon: Judge, in order to do that, I'll need permission of the Court to withdraw the exhibit so I can have it -- have a transcript made perfect.
The Court: Any objection to that.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection, Your Honor.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you.
The Court: The second thing is that even though we are not redacting documents anymore, sealing documents, California Rule of Court 2073, which relates to the filing of documents on the Internet, which we do in this case, has some restrictions that you cannot put on the Internet. For example, addresses, phone numbers of parties. I'm not going to read the whole statute to you, but that's what I'm talking about. So when you file a document, you must file it -- file a redacted version in compliance with California Rule of Court 2073 so that may be placed on the Internet. I don't intend to do any separate sealing orders, because they're just -- it's a statutory requirement that you redact those. Any questions about that.
Mr. Auchincloss: No, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: No, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. We'll recess until tomorrow morning. I'll see you tomorrow at 8:30.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:30 p.m.
