Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Monday, March 14, 2005 8:30 a.m.
The Court: Good morning.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor.
The Court: Let's see, the witness is in his place. I'll remind you that you're still under oath. Mr. Mesereau, you may proceed.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor. Good morning.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
Message: GAVIN-ANTON ARVIZO Having been previously sworn, resumed the stand and testified as follows:
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION Continued BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Arvizo, on Thursday you testified about how you learned what masturbation was. Remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you testified that Mr. Jackson told you what masturbation is, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you testified to the jury that Mr. Jackson said that if men don't masturbate, that they can get to a level where they can -- might rape a girl. Remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember saying that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember being interviewed by the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department on a number of occasions.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you remember who interviewed you.
Gavin Arvizo: Most likely Steve Robel or Paul Zelis.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember being asked, “Before we get started on the next set of questions, can you describe to us what your opinion is, what you think masturbation is”. Do you remember one of the sheriffs asked you that during an interview.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: And you knew those interviews were being recorded, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Remember you said, “My grandma explained it to me. She told me that -- that your -- the only reason is because like if -- if men don't do it, men might get to a point where they might go ahead and rape a woman”. Do you remember saying that to the sheriffs.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Why did your story change between that interview and your testimony last Thursday.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, what do you mean “changed”.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you told the police your grandmother made that quote to you, and you came into court under oath and told the jury Mr. Jackson made that quote to you.
Gavin Arvizo: That didn't change. Because Michael tried to explain to me first. And I -- he was more pushing on me that men have to masturbate. Now, later when I came back from Neverland, I guess my grandmother saw that I was very confused about sexuality and things like that. And my grandmother explained to me a lot of things.
Mr. Mesereau: So it just so happened that after Mr. Jackson told you, “If a man doesn't do it, they may get to a point where they rape a woman”, your grandmother made the almost identical quote to you. Is that what you're saying.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really. She didn't make the same exact thing that Michael said. But I'm not exactly sure what my grandmother said. I know my grandmother explained a lot of things to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you a transcript of your sheriff's interview.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Whoops, I'm sorry. Your Honor, I spilled a little water with my notebook, so --
The Bailiff: How about you put that over here.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Arvizo, have you had a chance to look at that page of transcript.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about what you told the sheriffs about what masturbation was.
The Court: Just a moment, Counsel.
Gavin Arvizo: It refreshes my --
The Court: Just a moment. Let's take care of one thing at a time. You may start again on that.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Arvizo, have you had a chance to look at that page of transcript of your sheriff's interview.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about what you told the sheriffs your grandmother said.
Gavin Arvizo: It refreshes -- I can recall what my grandmother was telling me. She was -- she saw that I was embarrassed about things like masturbation and growing up, and my mother was telling me that it's okay to do it. And Michael was telling me that you have to do it.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, Mr. Arvizo, I understand your position. But when the sheriffs asked you what masturbation was, you didn't say, “Mr. Jackson told me if a man doesn't do it, he may rape a woman”. You said if -- “My grandmother told me that if a man doesn't do it, he may rape a woman”, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe so. That's what you showed me. But --
Mr. Mesereau: And between the time of that interview --
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me. Your Honor, he was about to say something when he got cut off by counsel.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh, I apologize. I had no idea.
Gavin Arvizo: But --
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me. Go ahead.
Gavin Arvizo: But that still doesn't mean that Michael did not tell me.
Mr. Mesereau: But what you're telling the jury is it was sort of a coincidence that both your grandmother and Michael used almost the identical phrase about raping a woman.
Gavin Arvizo: Both my grandmother and Michael were trying to talk to me about the -- pretty much the birds and the bees story.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And they pretty much said the identical thing, is that what you're telling me.
Gavin Arvizo: Not exactly.
Mr. Mesereau: Not exactly.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, the quotes are almost identical, aren't they.
Gavin Arvizo: You see, Michael was trying to tell me that I have to masturbate. My mom -- my grandmother was actually telling me -- giving me the talk. Michael was just talking about masturbation.
Mr. Mesereau: But your grandmother said to you, “If men don't do it, men might get to a point where they might go ahead and rape a woman”, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael also told me that.
Mr. Mesereau: Well -- so you're saying they basically said the same thing.
Gavin Arvizo: My grandmother said it's okay to do it, because sometimes, some men, they can't control themselves and might do that.
Mr. Mesereau: But in that police interview, you never mentioned that Michael Jackson had said that to you, did you.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm sure in one of the other transcript I mentioned about Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: Not in that interview, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: But I'm sure in another one I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I'd like to ask you just about the allegations in the J.C. Penney case, okay. We're not going to go into the evidence, just what the allegations were. Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember that case.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And you and your mother Janet sued J.C. Penney, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I think we did. I'm pretty sure we did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And originally your family sued for battery, false imprisonment and infliction of emotional distress, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Later on, your mother amended the complaint to add sexual assault. Do you remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember that you were asked questions about that in a sworn deposition.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't remember being asked about my mom being -- whatever.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember being asked questions about your mother's allegations that J.C. Penney guards fondled her breasts in a parking lot.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object; 403.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember that case at all.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, a little bit. I mean, I was in the middle of my chemotherapy.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Your chemotherapy was going on at the same time.
Gavin Arvizo: At the same time as those depositions.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how many -- how many appointments for chemotherapy had you had at that point, if you know.
Gavin Arvizo: They would have it once a month -- once every three weeks, actually. Then I had ten rounds. And I wasn't like a regular kid that had cancer that would just go in for a few hours and get one bag of chemotherapy. I would go there for a week, in the hospital, and -- in a bed, and they would give me chemotherapy.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And approximately when did the chemotherapy end.
Gavin Arvizo: June 2001.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember last Thursday I asked you when these alleged acts of masturbation by Michael Jackson occurred. Do you remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And within an approximately 20-minute period you first said a couple of days before you left with Jose Salas, right.
Gavin Arvizo: What do you mean.
Mr. Mesereau: Jesus Salas, excuse me.
Gavin Arvizo: Couple days before I left with Jose Salas.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. You said a couple of days before you left Neverland with Jose Salas the masturbation occurred. Do you remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I did not say that.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't say that.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I said that it happened approximately the last two weeks of when we left Neverland for good.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, first you said a few days, and then you said a week, and then you said a couple of weeks, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Maybe you said that it was a few days.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss over the weekend these facts with anybody.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss the case with anybody over the weekend.
Gavin Arvizo: I had a brief conversation with Mr. Sneddon.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what did you talk about.
Gavin Arvizo: We talked about certain things that you might ask me.
Mr. Mesereau: And like what.
Gavin Arvizo: Just things about me.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: Things that you might ask about me.
Mr. Mesereau: Like what.
Gavin Arvizo: Like my history.
Mr. Mesereau: Your history.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you mean, your “history”.
Gavin Arvizo: In school maybe.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: In school maybe.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did Mr. Sneddon say to you about that.
Gavin Arvizo: He just told me to answer honestly.
Mr. Mesereau: And what else did he talk to you about.
Gavin Arvizo: That's pretty much it right there.
Mr. Mesereau: How long was the discussion.
Gavin Arvizo: 15 minutes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he say anything to you about an interview he had with a witness over the weekend.
Gavin Arvizo: With a witness besides me.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he ask you anything about one of your teachers at school.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, yes. He asked me about it.
Mr. Mesereau: And who was that.
Gavin Arvizo: My teacher.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: It's -- he wasn't really my teacher. His name is Richard Geralt.
Mr. Mesereau: What did Mr. Sneddon say to you about Mr. Geralt.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object. It assumes facts not in evidence that I said anything.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase the question, Your Honor.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Mr. Sneddon say something to you about Mr. Geralt.
Mr. Sneddon: Same objection.
The Court: Overruled.
Gavin Arvizo: Can you repeat the question.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Mr. Sneddon say anything to you over the weekend about Mr. Geralt.
Gavin Arvizo: He didn't have to tell me anything. I told him everything. I told him the facts about Mr. Geralt.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me ask the question again. Did Mr. Sneddon over the weekend say anything to you about a Mr. Geralt.
Gavin Arvizo: He asked me about Mr. Geralt, so it's kind of knowing, I guess.
Mr. Mesereau: What did he ask you about Mr. Geralt.
Gavin Arvizo: He asked me what do I know of Mr. Geralt.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you tell him.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you tell him.
Gavin Arvizo: I told him about -- that I knew Mr. Geralt.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me.
Gavin Arvizo: I told him that I knew of Mr. Geralt.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell him anything else.
Gavin Arvizo: About Mr. Geralt.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: I told him about school and how Mr. Geralt was.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you tell him.
Gavin Arvizo: About Mr. Geralt.
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah. What did you tell him about Mr. Geralt and school.
Gavin Arvizo: I told him that -- about a time when he -- he was a detention teacher. And I had detention, and I was in there.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: I was in his detention.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What else did you tell Mr. Sneddon about Mr. Geralt.
Gavin Arvizo: I told him that one time when I was in detention, I was sitting there, and he told us we had to do work, our homework. I didn't have a pencil. So I asked him, “Mr. Geralt, may I have a pencil”. And then he put me against the wall, because I asked if I could have a pencil.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell Mr. Sneddon anything else about Mr. Geralt.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: What else.
Gavin Arvizo: That sometimes in the middle of his class he would go outside and smoke a cigarette.
Mr. Mesereau: What else.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, that he always tried to handle his classes as if he was a drill sergeant.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What else.
Gavin Arvizo: I told him a story about -- that detention.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What did you tell him.
Gavin Arvizo: I told him there was one time that I was in detention, same -- and then when I was against the wall, I asked Mr. Geralt, “Why is it that I'm against the wall. I would like to do my work as you told me to do”.
Mr. Mesereau: What else did you tell Mr. Sneddon.
Gavin Arvizo: And then Mr. Geralt asked me, he said if I was on drugs. He said that if I was on -- doing marijuana or doing crack or something, and he told me he was going to give me a drug test.
Mr. Mesereau: What else did you tell Mr. Sneddon.
Gavin Arvizo: I told him that I was -- “Mr. Geralt, I'm not on drugs”. And then Mr. Geralt said that he's going to call the cops, and this and that, because he was saying that I was on drugs. But he was doing it in a way that he was making fun of me.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, Mr. Geralt was a teacher, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: He was a teacher at the school.
Mr. Mesereau: At what school.
Gavin Arvizo: John Burroughs Middle School.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell Mr. Sneddon anything else about Mr. Geralt.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What else did you tell him.
Gavin Arvizo: I -- then I told Mr. Geralt that, “Why is it that you're going to call a police officer here who would rather be doing something more important than something as my minute and dumb as this”.
Mr. Mesereau: And anything else you told Mr. Sneddon about Mr. Geralt.
Gavin Arvizo: And then after I told Mr. Geralt that, he realized that I was right, and he put his phone away. And then he called the campus supervision. And then he kept on going on that I was doing drugs and this and that. He said he -- he was just saying stuff like that. And then he went into -- he called campus supervision, and then they took me into the office. And then I told the teachers what happened, and they said they know how Mr. Geralt is.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell Mr. Sneddon anything else when you spoke to him over the weekend.
Gavin Arvizo: No. We talked about a lot -- we talked about a few things. I don't remember too much.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't remember too much.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I do, and -- I don't remember the exact things, I mean, word for word.
Mr. Mesereau: Why don't you just tell us generally what you talked about.
Gavin Arvizo: My history, mostly.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: My history.
Mr. Mesereau: Your history.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Please tell the jury what you told Mr. Sneddon about your history.
Gavin Arvizo: I just told you.
Mr. Mesereau: Anything else come up in that discussion.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: What else.
Gavin Arvizo: Are you trying to specify something.
Mr. Mesereau: No, I'm just simply asking you to tell the jury what you told Mr. Sneddon when you spoke to him over the weekend about your testimony in this case.
Gavin Arvizo: Please be specific.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, I'm just asking you. I wasn't in the conversation. What else do you remember. Please tell the jury anything else that was discussed.
Gavin Arvizo: Talked about my father.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk about a Mr. Alpert.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, yes. Yes, we did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did I just jog your memory a little bit about that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Mr. Sneddon tell you he had been in an interview with a Mr. Alpert on Saturday.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Well, I don't know if -- no, he said if I was -- if Mr. -- the dean, Alpert, interviewed me or talked to me.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he ask you questions about any discussions you ever had with Dean Alpert at John Burroughs School.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, he asked some questions about it.
Mr. Mesereau: In fact, Mr. Arvizo, he asked you whether you had been interviewed by Dean Alpert and whether you had confessed to him that Mr. Jackson never did anything to you of a sexual nature, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Why didn't you say that at the beginning.
Gavin Arvizo: I told Mr. Alpert that he didn't do anything to me.
Mr. Mesereau: You told Dean Alpert that twice, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know how many times I told him.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, that was the reason Mr. Sneddon telephoned you, wasn't it, as far as you knew.
Gavin Arvizo: What do you mean.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Sneddon telephoned you --
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, telephoned.
Mr. Mesereau: -- to ask you whether you had ever confessed to Dean Alpert that Michael Jackson never did anything to you of a sexual nature, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't remember Mr. Sneddon calling me and asking me that question.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't recall Mr. Sneddon asking you any questions like that over the weekend.
Gavin Arvizo: Over the weekend, if Michael had done anything to me.
Mr. Mesereau: No, Mr. Arvizo. Let me just -- let me just try and rephrase it, if I have confused you. Mr. Sneddon called you over the weekend, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object. That's a misstatement of his testimony and it assumes facts not in evidence that I called him.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Mr. Sneddon telephone you over the weekend.
Gavin Arvizo: No, he did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you telephone Mr. Sneddon over the weekend.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you engage in a conversation with Mr. Sneddon over the weekend.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did that conversation take place.
Gavin Arvizo: In a house.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did Mr. Sneddon come to see you.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you go to see Mr. Sneddon.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you go to see Mr. Sneddon.
Gavin Arvizo: In a house.
Mr. Mesereau: In his house.
Gavin Arvizo: In a house.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Who was with you, if anybody.
Gavin Arvizo: Detective Robel. Mr. -- Ron, Gordon and Mr. Sneddon, and I believe Mr. Mag was there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Let me just get it straight. Mr. Robel was there from the Santa Barbara Sheriffs, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Sneddon was there, right.
Gavin Arvizo: The attorneys were there.
Mr. Mesereau: Prosecutors. Prosecutor Zonen was there, right.
Gavin Arvizo: All of the district -- all of the attorneys were there.
Mr. Mesereau: Prosecutor Auchincloss was there, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Auchincloss.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. The fellow seated right to my left.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, Gordon, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Anyone else there besides those four.
Gavin Arvizo: Mag.
Mr. Mesereau: Who.
Gavin Arvizo: Mag. I don't know his full name.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Is this another sheriff.
Gavin Arvizo: No, this is an attorney.
Mr. Mesereau: Another prosecutor.
Gavin Arvizo: He's another attorney.
Mr. Mesereau: So you met with four prosecutors and a Santa Barbara Sheriff over the weekend, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object again. It assumes facts not in evidence that all of those people were present during the meeting.
Mr. Mesereau: I think that's what he just said.
Mr. Sneddon: No, he didn't.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet over the weekend with three prosecutors.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet with four prosecutors.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet with any prosecutors.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who were they.
Gavin Arvizo: One, Mr. Sneddon. And Steve Robel -- and Detective Steve Robel was present.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was anyone else present.
Gavin Arvizo: They were there, but they were in another room.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Who was there but in another room.
Gavin Arvizo: Ron, Mr. Zonen, Gordon and Mag.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I'm not hearing that. Is it Meg or Mick.
Gavin Arvizo: Mag.
Mr. Mesereau: Mag. Okay. And as far as you know, Mag's a prosecutor, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, what day did you have this meeting.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe it was yesterday.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately what time did the meeting take place.
Gavin Arvizo: 6:00, maybe 7:00.
Mr. Mesereau: So that would be last evening, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you learn in advance that the meeting was going to take place.
Gavin Arvizo: A couple hours before.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you learn the meeting was going to take place.
Gavin Arvizo: They -- they told me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Who's “they”.
Gavin Arvizo: Detective Steve Robel told me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did he call you on the phone.
Gavin Arvizo: No, he told me.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he call you on the phone.
Gavin Arvizo: He told me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: No, did he not call me on the phone.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you call him on the phone.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he show up at your house.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I don't live up here.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm just trying to ask you how you found out about the meeting. That's all I'm asking.
Gavin Arvizo: I told you, he told me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Where did he tell you about the meeting.
Gavin Arvizo: He told me at a house.
Mr. Mesereau: Where you're staying, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did he come to the house.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Approximately what time did Mr. Robel come to the house to tell you there was going to be a meeting that evening with all the prosecutors.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to that question. There was no meeting with all those prosecutors. Misstatement of his testimony.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it, Your Honor.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Arvizo, at approximately what time yesterday did you learn you were going to travel to another location to meet with Mr. Sneddon and others.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, other -- it was around maybe 5:00 or something like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you obviously attended the meeting, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if the conversation was recorded.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't believe it was recorded.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if anyone was taking notes.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, no, I don't think anyone was taking notes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did anyone tell you what the purpose of the meeting was.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: No one explained why you were having a meeting last night.
Gavin Arvizo: No. They told me that Tom was going to have to talk to me about some things.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And Mr. Sneddon did talk to you about some things, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And he talked to you about an interview that had been conducted on Saturday, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Mr. Sneddon ever tell you he had conducted an interview with a Mr. Alpert on Saturday.
Gavin Arvizo: No, did he not tell me that he conducted an interview.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did he ever tell you he had spoken with Mr. Alpert.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did he say about that.
Gavin Arvizo: He asked me about Mr. Alpert.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: What I knew.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he ask you if you ever had a meeting with Mr. Alpert, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told him you did, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You told him you met --
Gavin Arvizo: I told him that I'm pretty sure I did -- I did. Because I didn't really remember too good.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't remember too good that you had told Mr. Alpert that Mr. Jackson had never touched you sexually.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I believe it happened, because he was a dean of the school. And so -- I'm pretty sure I had a conversation with him.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you tell Mr. Sneddon you were pretty sure you had had a conversation with Dean Alpert at John Burroughs School.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell Mr. Sneddon approximately when you had that discussion.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Mr. Sneddon ever ask you when you had that discussion.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did the discussion with Dean Alpert take place.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't remember. It was probably in his office.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And the purpose of the discussion was what, if you know.
Gavin Arvizo: It was probably about Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You say “probably about Michael”.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: But you're not sure.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not sure what the whole conversation was about.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But sometime in that conversation, Dean Alpert looked you in the eye and said, “Are these allegations that Mr. Jackson sexually abused you true”, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said they were not true, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. I told him that Michael didn't do anything to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Mr. Alpert asked you twice whether or not Michael Jackson had ever done anything of a sexual nature to you, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know if he asked me twice.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, the first time he asked you, you shook your head “No”, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: And the second time he asked you, you said to him, “No, he did not touch me in any sexually inappropriate way”, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm pretty sure I told him that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: But, I mean, I don't know how exactly it happened.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, based on what you've already said, you also discussed a teacher named Geralt, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When I started asking you questions about your discussion with Mr. Sneddon, the first person you mentioned was Mr. Geralt, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Geralt was also a teacher at the school, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And in summary, you had some disciplinary problems with Mr. Geralt, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I had a lot of disciplinary problems.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me.
Gavin Arvizo: I had a lot of disciplinary problems.
Mr. Mesereau: You had a lot of them.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: What disciplinary problems did you have.
Gavin Arvizo: I would get into fights sometimes at school.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: I would get into fights sometimes at school.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You got into a lot of them, didn't you.
Gavin Arvizo: Not a lot. I got into a few.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And were you ever asked to leave the school.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever asked to leave class.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And approximately when did that happen.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, well, a lot of teachers at John Burroughs Middle School, once anyone even talks out of turn, they'll send you out of class.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you got up in class and accused Teacher Geralt of having his balls in his mouth, right.
Gavin Arvizo: His balls in his mouth.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: No, because I was never in one of his classes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you deny doing that.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't even remember ever doing that.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you in any programs after school with Teacher Geralt.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe he was an ROTC instructor.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you were in ROTC at the time, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No. Not exactly. Because I had so much experience in that field of marching, and military, military aspects, he -- they liked me being an advisor there.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you were accused by Mr. Geralt of being totally disruptive in that program, right.
Gavin Arvizo: In the ROTC program.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't remember that. I remember them loving me there because the whole -- the whole -- their whole cadet corps was disciplined, and -- and knew what they were doing. It was getting better at marching.
Mr. Mesereau: And you accused the cadet core of being stupid, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I might have called a few cadets -- that they looked stupid with their uniforms. But -- if their uniforms look ugly, that they need to make them look better. But I don't think I remember calling the whole core stupid.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you said you were accused of being on drugs, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you say that was false, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. I don't -- will never go on drugs.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Who accused you of being on drugs.
Gavin Arvizo: Mr. Geralt.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did he ask you if you were on drugs.
Gavin Arvizo: He was doing it in a way that he was trying to make fun of me.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you escorted away from the other students at one point.
Gavin Arvizo: During the detention.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: Actually, all of the students in there were kind of cheering me on because they all knew how Mr. Geralt is, and no one's ever stood up to him before.
Mr. Mesereau: But you stood up to the teacher, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I was already standing up, so --
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me. I'm sorry, I didn't hear what you said.
Gavin Arvizo: I guess so.
Mr. Mesereau: You did stand up to Teacher Geralt, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You confronted him, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, after he had brought himself down to my level by doing those things. By not -- see, because I believe teachers are higher than me because I'm just a student. When a teacher does something like that and makes fun of me and tries to say I'm on drugs, he's no longer the level of a teacher, he's come down to my level.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were angry about that, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, I felt as if he was -- didn't deserve respect as a teacher.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't deserve respect as a teacher.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you did not respect him because you didn't think he deserved it, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't respect him as a person.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told him that, didn't you.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't tell him those exact words.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't tell him, “I don't respect you”. I didn't tell him in those exact words.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did Teacher Geralt do anything to discipline you, that you can recall.
Gavin Arvizo: He gave me detention once, I think.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when you say “detention”, what do you mean.
Gavin Arvizo: Detention with him again.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me.
Gavin Arvizo: A detention with him again.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what was detention. What did he take you do.
Gavin Arvizo: He had us go in this -- the auditorium, because there was a lot of kids. Well, first we'd be in his classroom, and usually there would be a lot of kids, so we would usually move over to the auditorium because it was bigger, and then we would do our homework in there. It was after school.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Since we're on the subject of school, I'd like to just ask you some questions about your experiences at school. Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know a teacher named Murphy.
Gavin Arvizo: Mr. Murphy, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You were disciplined by Mr. Murphy as well, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't remember too much about Mr. Murphy.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, was Mr. Murphy one of your teachers.
Gavin Arvizo: He was for a while, but I asked the counselor -- my counselor to move me out of his class.
Mr. Mesereau: Why did you want to get out of Mr. Murphy's class.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't like how he conducted his classroom.
Mr. Mesereau: What didn't you like about it.
Gavin Arvizo: He was just hard to understand, the way he was trying to teach.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, he accused you of being disruptive in his class, didn't he.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you disruptive.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, now that I look back, yes. I -- I was dis --
Mr. Mesereau: How were you disruptive in Mr. Murphy's class.
Gavin Arvizo: I might ask a question without raising my hand.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me.
Gavin Arvizo: I might ask a question without raising my hand.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Your answer is, “I might ask a question”. Did you or did you not do that.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm pretty sure I did. I mean --
Mr. Mesereau: Well, he accused you of being uncooperative and disruptive, didn't he.
Gavin Arvizo: He accused me of being uncooperative because I didn't sign a detention he gave me because I didn't believe it was correct.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry, you're speaking a little fast. I couldn't understand that. Could you just repeat it.
Gavin Arvizo: He accused me of being uncooperative because of a detention he had given me and I did not want to sign it because I didn't believe it was a --
Mr. Mesereau: What didn't you want to sign.
Gavin Arvizo: A detention.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me.
Gavin Arvizo: A detention that he had written up.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you refuse to sign it.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what happened after you refused to sign it.
Gavin Arvizo: He told me -- he gave me -- he wrote up a referral, and I believe he sent me to Dean Alpert.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know a Mr. Parker at school.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who was Mr. Parker.
Gavin Arvizo: He was a new guy that came. I think he was going to take Dean Alpert's spot, and Dean Alpert was going to move up or something.
Mr. Mesereau: At one point you apologized to Mr. Parker, didn't you.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you apologize to Mr. Parker for.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably apologized about the way I was in school and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you mean by that.
Gavin Arvizo: About how I disrespected teachers sometimes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And that was correct, wasn't it. You did disrespect your teachers sometimes, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know a Mr. Collins.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't remember Mr. Collins.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember anyone named Collins at the school.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Bailiff Cortez: I need you to speak up a little louder. Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: How about a Mr. or Mrs. Slaugh, S-l-a-u-g-h.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably talking about Miss Slaughter.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay, Slaughter.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember a Miss Slaughter.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember having problems in -- with Miss Slaughter.
Gavin Arvizo: I was -- not really. I mean --
Mr. Mesereau: You don't recall arguing with that teacher.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, yeah. I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: What was that argument about.
Gavin Arvizo: It's because I asked to go to the rest room. And I told her that I had to go to the rest room or else I'll have problems. And then she still wouldn't let me go.
Mr. Mesereau: And then what happened.
Gavin Arvizo: I told her about how I had cancer and stuff, and she still wouldn't let me go to the rest room.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you do about that.
Gavin Arvizo: I sat back in my seat.
Mr. Mesereau: You requested to be transferred out of that class, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, it's like they had all these -- I didn't really request to get out of Miss Slaughter's class, but I wanted to get out of Mr. Murphy's class. They have different -- they have A, B, C and D, I think. And then C was what I was in. And C is a whole block of teachers that everyone is in, and they all switch around.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Well, you were accused of screaming words that the other students were jumping around like retarded people, right. Do you remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And --
Gavin Arvizo: Well --
Mr. Mesereau: Please tell the jury --
Gavin Arvizo: Barely.
Mr. Mesereau: -- what happened.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't really remember what I said. It probably happened, because a lot of times there was -- I would stand up to the teacher. A lot of the kids would kind of congratulate me, and then --
Mr. Mesereau: You were kind of a hero for standing up to teachers.
Gavin Arvizo: Sometimes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember a teacher named Fink.
Gavin Arvizo: I think you're talking about Mr. Finklestein.
Mr. Mesereau: Who is Mr. Finklestein.
Gavin Arvizo: He was my math teacher.
Mr. Mesereau: You had problems in that class also, didn't you.
Gavin Arvizo: I think everyone in his class had a problem with him.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me just ask about you. Did you have problems in Mr. Finklestein's class.
Gavin Arvizo: I was “everyone”.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: I was one of the “everyone”.
Mr. Mesereau: You're saying everybody had a problem.
Gavin Arvizo: If everyone had a problem, then I would be one of them, right.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm just asking about yourself. Okay. Did you have problems with your conduct --
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- in Mr. Finklestein's class.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Please tell the jury what those problems were.
Gavin Arvizo: Same problems with every other teacher.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you mean by that.
Gavin Arvizo: I was kind of argumentative sometimes, and I shouldn't have been. I didn't like the way he taught because I wasn't learning anything.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you do in his class that caused a disruption.
Gavin Arvizo: I would argue sometimes about the way he would teach, and that he wouldn't use our textbooks. And I asked him why we have these textbooks, if he didn't let us use them.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you disciplined at all.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, sometimes he would send me out of class.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many times were you asked by this teacher to leave the class.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it more than five.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it -- do you think it was ten.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have any idea at all.
Gavin Arvizo: I remember him -- I know I got sent more than once, but, I mean, I don't remember the exact number.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you were accused of disrupting that class, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember someone named Moon. Is there a teacher named Moon.
Gavin Arvizo: I remember the name, but I'm not sure which teacher it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you were accused of singing in the classroom and disrupting the class, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Can you tell me more about Mr. Moon. Because I don't remember really who he is.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me ask you this: Were you accused of being defiant, singing in the classroom, talking, disrupting testing, and they had to call your parents.
Gavin Arvizo: Mr. Moon. Mr. Moon. Oh, he's my home room teacher. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't recall any problems with that teacher.
Gavin Arvizo: No, because he was my home room teacher, and I hardly do anything in that class.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you don't recall any problem with a teacher named Moon, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, how many times did you refuse to write an apology to teachers.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't remember being asked to write an apology.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, didn't you just say before you were asked to apologize at one point.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I have -- they didn't ask me to apologize. I apologized to Mr. Parker.
Mr. Mesereau: But you were asked to write an apology to a child who you insulted in class, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you a note from your school records.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Go ahead.
Gavin Arvizo: I can't really understand that writing.
Mr. Mesereau: You can't read that.
Gavin Arvizo: I see “apology” -- it's kind of messed up writing.
The Court: Wait a minute. Just a moment. He's just asking you to read that and see if it refreshes your memory, not to comment on it. Just -- no, you just read it and see if it refreshes your memory.
Gavin Arvizo: I can't understand it.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't read that at all.
Gavin Arvizo: It looks like -- kind of like scribbles.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry.
Gavin Arvizo: It's like doctor's writing.
Mr. Mesereau: You can't read any of it.
Gavin Arvizo: I can't read that. It's unlegible.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall an incident like that.
Gavin Arvizo: Writing to a student, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: Writing an apology letter to a student, I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall being asked to write an apology to a student.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall being accused of not completing your school assignments and tasks.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, I wouldn't ever do my homework or anything.
Mr. Mesereau: You would never do it.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay. I did it sometimes. Like in eighth grade I did it for my science class, because I kind of liked it.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you testified last week that Mr. Jackson didn't help you with your homework, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I said that he might have helped me for that one little bit of homework that I did, but he didn't really help me too much.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But he helped you a little bit, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Foe that one little bit of the assignment.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know a Mr. Davy.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, he was the vice principal. He was a cool guy.
Mr. Mesereau: Which school.
Gavin Arvizo: John Burroughs.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember having discussions with Mr. Davy about your disciplinary problems.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And please tell the jury what those discussions were all about.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't really remember too good. Probably the same thing I talked about like with dean -- or Mr. Parker, that to get better.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you had discussions with Mr. Davy, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: The subject of the discussions was your being disruptive, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Please tell the jury what you and he discussed.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't really remember. It was in the eighth grade. Well, it was a while ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you one of your school records. And this is typed up.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes. Now, when he shows you that, he's just going to ask you if that refreshes your memory. You're not to say what's on the page or you're --
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, okay.
The Court: -- not to discuss it. There's only one issue in front of you. Go ahead.
Gavin Arvizo: All right. Oh, I remember Miss Super.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to read that document.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about problems you had with Mr. Davy.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, that wasn't a letter from Mr. Davy. That was a letter from --
The Court: Just a moment. He's just asked you whether or not that refreshes your recollection about problems you had with Mr. Davy. That's a “yes” or “no” answer.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I never had problems with Mr. Davy.
The Court: That's not the question. Listen. Did that paper refresh your recollection about any problems you have had with Mr. Davy. “Yes” or “no”.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
The Court: All right. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever have a discussion with Mr. Davy about your disciplinary problems with other teachers.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Please tell the jury what went on in that discussion.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't really remember too good. I mean, he would tell me to get better, or stuff like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Anything else.
Gavin Arvizo: Pretty much that's it.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know someone named Bender.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, yes. Miss Bender.
Mr. Mesereau: Who is Miss Bender.
Gavin Arvizo: She was my history teacher.
Mr. Mesereau: And she was your history of teacher in November of 2002, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And she complained to Mr. Davy about you having disciplinary problems in school, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really. But, I mean, she probably did.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you a memo from her to Mr. Davy.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think so, because I would never really see those. They would -- the teachers would give them to them about me. They wouldn't, like, pass it to me to give to them. They wouldn't have me read it.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, she did complain about your behavior, true.
Gavin Arvizo: She probably did. Because a lot of teachers did.
Mr. Mesereau: In her class, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You got complaints from almost every teacher at John Burroughs School, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were going to John Burroughs School in 2002, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you there in 2001.
Gavin Arvizo: I had cancer in 2001.
Mr. Mesereau: So you weren't at John Burroughs School then.
Gavin Arvizo: I had -- that was -- I had finished my chemotherapy in June 2001. So I started -- I believe I started in seventh grade in -- or -- I'm not sure. Probably the sixth grade. I don't know. All I know is what -- because when I got out of cancer, I think I was in the sixth grade at LeConte Middle School.
Mr. Mesereau: But you entered Miss Bender's class in world history and geography in 2002, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And she complained that you were defiant on a regular basis and disrespectful to her, correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as asked and answered. He's already answered this question.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Gavin Arvizo: Can you repeat the question.
The Court: I'll have it read back.
Gavin Arvizo: Thank you.
The Court Reporter: Okay. And she complained that you were defiant on a regular basis and disrespectful to her, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: She also said you appeared to have good acting skills, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know if she said that.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you her memo to Mr. Davy.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably not, because I never saw the memo before.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, do you recall her ever saying anything to the effect, “You have good acting skills”.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you were at John Burroughs School, what kind of grades did you get, generally speaking. Were they good.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Were they poor.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how long were you at John Burroughs School.
Gavin Arvizo: Seventh and eighth grade, I believe.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So that would be two years.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably. I mean, because I don't think I stood there the whole seventh and eighth grade.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry, I couldn't hear that.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think, because, I mean, a few months I was at Neverland, I don't think I stood there the whole two years of school.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss these disciplinary problems that you had at John Burroughs School with Mr. Sneddon last night.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he ask you about all these teachers.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, he asked you about some teachers, didn't he.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What teachers did Mr. Sneddon ask you about last night.
Gavin Arvizo: He asked me -- well, I don't think he asked me about teachers. I think he just -- I just recall Mr. Geralt. And Alpert, the dean.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall a teacher named Martinez.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Martinez was your drama teacher, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were accused of being disruptive in that class, weren't you.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, were you taking -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. Let's talk about the year 2002 when you were having these disciplinary problems in John Burroughs School, okay. Were you taking any medication then.
Gavin Arvizo: I was taking my 500 milligrams of Amoxicillin, the antibiotics I have to take for like the rest of my life, and the -- and five milligrams of Lycinopril for my kidney.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some point you entered into an agreement to do independent study, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not sure. Toward the end -- probably the second semester of the eighth grade.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately what year would that be.
Gavin Arvizo: 2003, I think.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me.
Gavin Arvizo: Maybe 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You attended Roosevelt High School at one point, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever go to Roosevelt High School.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever go to City of Angels.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever do an independent study program with City of Angels.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know if it was with City of Angels, but I did an independent study program.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Again, what year was that, if you know.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how about Bernice Carlson Hospital School. Do you recall that school.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Don't recall ever being enrolled there. All right. Before Burroughs, which school did you go to.
Gavin Arvizo: I think it was LeConte Middle School.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me.
Gavin Arvizo: LeConte Middle School.
Mr. Mesereau: Is it LeComt.
Gavin Arvizo: LeConte.
Mr. Mesereau: LeConte. And where was that located.
Gavin Arvizo: North Hollywood. It was a magnet school.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever have any disciplinary problems at that school.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, probably.
Mr. Mesereau: Please tell the jury what disciplinary problems you had at that school.
Gavin Arvizo: Same stuff. I mean, I was -- I wasn't that good of a kid then.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what did you do that was a problem.
Gavin Arvizo: Argue with teachers, stuff like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you get disciplined at that school.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, I'm pretty sure I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Please tell the jury how you were disciplined.
Gavin Arvizo: They would probably give me detention or something like that.
Mr. Mesereau: And what were you accused of doing at that school.
Gavin Arvizo: Being argumentative and confrontational and stuff like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me get back to your conversation with Mr. Sneddon last night. Did he ask you who Jeffrey Alpert is.
Gavin Arvizo: He asked me who Dean Alpert was.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you tell him who Jeffrey Alpert is.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know if Dean Alpert was the same Jeffrey Alpert, because, I mean, I only call him Dean Alpert. So I don't know if we're talking about the same guy, because there's -- I think there's another guy named Alpert there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you tell Mr. Sneddon you knew who Dean Alpert was.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell him when you first met Dean Alpert.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Well --
Mr. Mesereau: What did you tell Mr. Sneddon.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I didn't really tell him when I first met him, but I told him that I knew that I met him.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did the conversation begin with a discussion about Mr. Alpert or Mr. Geralt.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe it was about Mr. Geralt first.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you told Mr. Sneddon your history with Mr. Geralt, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I told him about that one story that I told you.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: I told him about that one story that I told you.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And after you finished telling Mr. Sneddon about your experiences with Mr. Geralt, did you then start talking about Mr. Alpert.
Gavin Arvizo: No, he asked me if I remember who Mr. Alpert was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you were sent to Mr. Alpert's office many times for disciplinary problems, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Generally fights, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, not really. Because I didn't want to fight in the seventh grade -- well, every time I would get into a fight, I would be sent there. I got into one fight in seventh grade with an eighth grader, and I'm not -- I remember one fight, but I know I got into more than one in the eighth grade.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you were -- you had a lot of meetings with him about --
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- allegations, at least, that you were a discipline problem, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I had meetings with him because I was a disciplinary problem.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And do you know approximately when Dean Alpert called you in his office to ask you if any of these allegations involving Michael Jackson were true.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe it was after I came back from Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm pretty sure it was after I came back from Neverland, the eighth grade.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And he looked at you, and he said, “Look at me, look at me, Gavin. I can't help you unless you tell me the truth. Did any of this happen. Did anything bad happen”. Remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, yeah, I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: And your response was, “No, nothing happened”, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You used to send a lot of letters and cards to Michael Jackson, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you begin sending letters and cards to Michael Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: When I met him, I guess.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me.
Gavin Arvizo: When I met him.
Mr. Mesereau: Would that be the first trip to Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, I don't think I gave him a card when -- the first day I met him, but, I mean, it was probably around the times that I knew him.
Mr. Mesereau: You also were sending cards to his assistant named Evvy, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. She was a really nice lady.
Mr. Mesereau: Please tell the jury who Evvy is.
Gavin Arvizo: I think she's like the assistant to Michael or something like that.
Mr. Mesereau: You sent a card to her saying that you loved her, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah -- I believe I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah, your whole family did, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I think we did.
Mr. Mesereau: Said, “Evvy, sweetheart, we love you”, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know if we said that, but I mean --
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you a copy of a card.
Gavin Arvizo: Sure. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Could I see the card for just a second.
Gavin Arvizo: It's --
The Court: Just a moment. He's just showing you the card, remember.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
The Court: Now he's going to ask you if it refreshes your recollection.
Gavin Arvizo: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that card.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about sending a card to Evvy.
Gavin Arvizo: A little bit. Because I knew we sent cards to Evvy.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You called her a sweetheart and said you loved her, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to that question, because counsel's not laid the foundation that he recognizes the handwriting as being his.
Gavin Arvizo: That's my mom's --
The Court: Just a moment.
Mr. Sneddon: Lack of foundation.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll go into it, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection is overruled.
The Court: You may answer. I'll have the question -- do you want the question read back.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
The Court Reporter: Okay. You called her a sweetheart and said you loved her, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you used to write cards to Michael and call him “daddy”, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would refer to yourself as his son, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I called him “daddy”, and then he would call me his son.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you yourself wrote to him and said, “To Daddy Michael, from your son Gavin”, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: That's probably after he called me “son”.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me just ask you the question again, because you got to answer the question.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Isn't it true that you sent a letter to Michael Jackson, you addressed it to “Daddy Michael, from your son Gavin”.
Gavin Arvizo: I mean, I'm -- I don't know every letter I ever sent to him, but, I mean, I probably did.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember doing that.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you that, the letter.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that document.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about sending Michael Jackson a letter that said, “To Daddy Michael, from your son Gavin”.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember sending another card to Michael Jackson that said, “I miss you, Daddy Michael”.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know -- I probably did send him that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know for sure if that happened.
Gavin Arvizo: Not for sure, but I'm pretty sure I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you the card.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you had a chance to look at that document.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about your sending a card to Michael Jackson that said, “I miss you, Daddy Michael”.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How often would you send cards or letters to Michael Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: I'd probably send them maybe once a month or something like that.
Mr. Mesereau: And you used to ask him for his phone numbers, right.
Gavin Arvizo: He would give me some of his phone numbers.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: He would give me some of his phone numbers. He gave them.
Mr. Mesereau: But correct me if I'm wrong, did you tell the jury last week that he gave you phone numbers that ended up not working.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I told you he gave me phone numbers, and after a while they didn't work.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would then routinely ask him for numbers that did work, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really routinely. But, I mean, I asked him.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know approximately when you began sending letters or cards to Michael Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably when the numbers didn't work no more, and all we had was Evvy to talk to.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember sending a letter to Michael Jackson that said, “I love you, Daddy Michael. And tell my little brother and little sister that I love and care about them. Thank you for everything, Daddy Michael. Thank you for being my Daddy Michael. Thank you for helping me be happy and beat cancer”. Do you remember sending him a letter like that.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really, but I mean I probably did.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you the card, or a copy of the card.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that copy of a card.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And does it refresh your recollection that you wrote to Michael Jackson yourself and thanked him for helping you beat cancer.
Gavin Arvizo: I remember that card.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: I remember that card.
Mr. Mesereau: You did write to Michael Jackson yourself and thanked him for helping you beat cancer, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I wrote that in the letter, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You used to also write letters to Michael Jackson's children, right, Prince and Paris.
Gavin Arvizo: I might have.
Mr. Mesereau: You called Michael, Prince and Paris your very best friend -- friends in the world, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall doing that.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you a copy of that card.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't remember writing that.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember writing any letters that were addressed to Michael, Prince and Paris.
Gavin Arvizo: My writing doesn't -- no.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't recall ever doing that.
Gavin Arvizo: No. My writing doesn't look that good.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: My writing doesn't look that good.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you used to write Evvy, Michael Jackson's personal assistant, and thank her for what she had done for you, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, I would thank her for, like, setting up stuff and helping us.
Mr. Mesereau: What nice things had Evvy done for you.
Gavin Arvizo: She would like -- when I would -- she helped me set up the AOL account with the Internet.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry, I can't --
Gavin Arvizo: She helped me set up the Internet on the computer that Michael --
Mr. Mesereau: What else did she do for you.
Gavin Arvizo: She was just a really nice lady. I mean, we would call her and she would be really nice to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever writing to Michael Jackson about his injuring his foot.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And tell the jury what you told Michael Jackson about that.
Gavin Arvizo: I just told him, like, I hope he feels better, or stuff like that.
Mr. Mesereau: You told him that your family was praying for him, true.
Gavin Arvizo: I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: You said you felt sorry about his foot being broken, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said you couldn't wait till you could play at Neverland again, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You called him “daddy” in that letter, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that true.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know, but I'm pretty sure I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You reminded him that he keeps all of his promises, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, he would tell me he keeps every promise he says.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you reminded him of that in your letter at one time, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said, “I wish I could be with you in New York and watch you record your music stuff”. Remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you a copy of this letter.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, yeah, I remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that document.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you wanted to go to New York and be with Mr. Jackson in a recording studio, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I guess. I mean, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And that didn't happen, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You never traveled with Mr. Jackson to New York.
Gavin Arvizo: I never traveled with Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: You called him the nicest, most loving person in the world, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You said, “I love you, Daddy Michael”, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You said, “Thank you, Daddy Michael, for being my best, best friend forever and ever”, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You sent another card to him and it said, “Here's a little something to make you feel better while your leg is healing. Ha ha, ha ha. Love you. Love, your son Gavin”. Do you remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember doing that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember sending him a card asking him to, “Please come back, I miss you, I love you”. Do you remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you a copy of that card.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that document.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You don't recall saying words to Mr. Jackson, “Come back, I miss you, I love you”.
Gavin Arvizo: I mean, because I probably did, but I don't really remember sending a letter.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, to your knowledge, other members of your family were sending cards to Mr. Jackson as well, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You sent a lot of cards that were signed, “Your son, Gavin”, true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. You used to refer to Michael as your best friend, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You used to refer to him as “cool”, right. Right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know if I said “cool”, but I probably did.
Mr. Mesereau: You said you liked being in the music studio at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever in his music studio at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you with Michael Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who else was there.
Gavin Arvizo: I think David was there.
Mr. Mesereau: You said who.
Gavin Arvizo: David.
Mr. Mesereau: Your father.
Gavin Arvizo: No, the -- the -- the dude that would, like, work with all the computers and stuff. And one time when we went in there and he was doing his hair with one lady.
Mr. Mesereau: This is someone who works on the computers at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I don't know if -- he's like a computer-whiz-type guy. And then the other time was with the lady that was in there doing his hair or something.
Mr. Mesereau: How often were you in the music studio at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really that often. I mean, I would go in there sometimes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you go in there with Michael Jackson or would you go in there with someone else, typically.
Gavin Arvizo: I would usually go in there when Michael was probably already in there.
Mr. Mesereau: And usually what time of day would that be.
Gavin Arvizo: Afternoon.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there a general time you used to go in there.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really, because it was pretty random. I mean, because we would be probably bored, and then we'd ask, “Where's Michael at”, and then we would go to his studio.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long would you stay in the studio, typically.
Gavin Arvizo: An hour or two. Like, we would be in there, and it would kind of give Michael a little break from working. And once he had to go back to work, we would leave and go do something else.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever in that music studio when Michael Jackson was not present.
Gavin Arvizo: I think I might have been in there once.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you get in.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, the door was probably open. Because there's a code there, and you can't really get in without the code.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you get the code.
Gavin Arvizo: I said that I didn't know the code. So the door might have been open or something.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me.
Gavin Arvizo: It was either someone was already probably in there, or the door was open, because I didn't know that code.
Mr. Mesereau: But you and Star used to go into that studio without Mr. Jackson, didn't you.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't remember going there randomly.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you ever remember being in there with your brother Star.
Gavin Arvizo: I probably went in there once without Michael being there, but, I mean -- it was probably just to look in there and look if Michael was there.
Mr. Mesereau: And my question is -- you're telling the jury you probably went in there. And my question is, how did you get in, if you know.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know, because I didn't know the code. So it wouldn't be punching in the code.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever ask anybody for the code to the studio at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't think so. I mean, because that was like Michael's work area, so I wouldn't even really want to be in there.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever in the theater with your brother Star when Michael Jackson was not present.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you get in.
Gavin Arvizo: The door was usually open to the theater.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you and Star do in that theater when Michael was not with you.
Gavin Arvizo: Watch movies.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you just pick the movies yourself.
Gavin Arvizo: No. They -- they had this list of all the movies that would be playing in the theater, at his theater. They had like this chalkboard, and you write them there, and say that we could go watch them; that these are the movies that would be playing. And we would go and talk to the guy that works the projector and we asked him what movie to play. And we'd get our little snacks from the booth place and then we'd go sit down and watch.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you feel you could just go in there anytime you wanted.
Gavin Arvizo: Pretty much.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you do that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you start using that theater from the first time you ever visited Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: I think we went in there the first time we visited at Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: And correct me if I'm wrong, you would simply go in there and pick whatever movie you wanted, or would it just be the movie for the day.
Gavin Arvizo: Sometimes they would only have one movie and sometimes they would have more than one movie, and we would go in there and we would watch it.
Mr. Mesereau: When you were recovering from cancer, did you used to go into that theater and watch movies.
Gavin Arvizo: When I had cancer, I think I went in there and watched movies.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When did you learn your cancer was in remission.
Gavin Arvizo: June 2001.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And after you learned your cancer was in remission, when is the next time you remember speaking to Michael Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: When he wanted me to go up and do the Martin Bashir thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the first time you recall speaking to Michael Jackson after you learned your cancer was in remission.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. These cards that I just showed you, letters and cards, you started sending them shortly after you met Mr. Jackson, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, not really, because I think we -- I think I started wanting to send the cards when Michael wasn't talking to me anymore.
Mr. Mesereau: When he wasn't talking to you anymore.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when do you think he wasn't talking to you anymore.
Gavin Arvizo: Two months into my cancer.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me.
Gavin Arvizo: Two months into my chemotherapy.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when would that be.
Gavin Arvizo: August or September of 2000.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So August or September of 2000, you and your family started sending nice letters and cards to Michael Jackson, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And those are the letters and cards that I showed you a little while ago, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And it was your understanding your mother used to send him cards and letters as well, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: And she used to refer to him as “daddy”, didn't she.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think she referred to him as “daddy”.
Mr. Mesereau: You never heard her say that once.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, toward me, me saying that. Because, I mean, my dad had left. And I started calling him “daddy” after my dad left because I didn't have a dad.
Mr. Mesereau: And your mother approved of that, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: All right. Let's take our morning break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: All right. You may proceed.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Gavin, I just want to ask you a couple of questions about your illness. Okay. Looking at your medical records, clearly you had a massive amount of tumor, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you had surgery on your spleen, a kidney, the tip of your pancreas, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know about my pancreas. But they took out my kidney and my spleen.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, how long after your surgery did you learn you were in remission.
Gavin Arvizo: After my surgery. It wasn't -- you're not in remission until you're done with your chemotherapy.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So when were you told your cancer is in remission.
Gavin Arvizo: June 2001.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when was your surgery, if you know.
Gavin Arvizo: June 2000.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So one year after your surgery, were you told the cancer had disappeared.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: June of 2001.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And in 2001, you did not go to Neverland, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: In 2000 you made a number of trips to Neverland, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: So you started going to Neverland right after you had your surgery, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Not right after, because I had to recuperate from the surgeries.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How many months after your surgery do you think you started going to Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: It was probably after the first round of -- because I had to recuperate from the surgery and then I had to do my first round of chemotherapy.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: And so after my first round of chemotherapy, I believe I went to Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: You can play sports now, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what sports do you play.
Gavin Arvizo: I play football.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What position.
Gavin Arvizo: They have me at wide receiver, but they kind of realized that I was too big, and -- to play wide receiver.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: So they put me on corner now.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, have you -- have you ever learned what kind of cancer it was.
Gavin Arvizo: They didn't -- no one ever knew what kind of cancer it was. That's why I only believe that God gave me this cancer to guide my life in a certain way --
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Gavin Arvizo: -- because they -- no one -- they sent it all over the country and no one could figure out what kind of cancer it was.
Mr. Mesereau: What I'm asking is this: How long after the surgery did you learn there was no cancer in your body at all. Was it one year.
Gavin Arvizo: It was -- well, it's like they had a CAT scan after my fifth round of chemotherapy.
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Gavin Arvizo: And then they said they couldn't see the cancer anymore, but they said they still had to finish the rest. I asked them, “Why can't I stop now then”. Because, I mean, I didn't like taking chemotherapy, because it made me nauseous and a bunch of other stuff. But he said I had to finish the next five, because it could be to where it's really, really small, to where you can't see it under a microscope. So they said I had to finish.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall -- let me rephrase the question. Do you remember in 1996 making a false allegation that your mother abused you.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to that. 403.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: I asked you some questions about Evvy Tavasci. And she was Michael Jackson's assistant, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you talk to her often.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And --
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- when did you begin talking to her.
Gavin Arvizo: I began talking to her once I -- the first time I met Michael, I mean, I would call her sometimes and ask her about stuff. I would talk to her, and I would ask her if she knew where Michael was sometimes, or stuff like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, how many times do you think you telephoned Evvy Tavasci.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. I don't know how many times I called her.
Mr. Mesereau: You called her quite often, didn't you.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know when you began telephoning Evvy.
Gavin Arvizo: When I first met Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: And did Michael give you her phone number.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Michael tell you you could call Evvy when you wanted to.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really. It was -- I wasn't supposed to just call her for a lot of times. Or like -- for just like business -- well, not really business, but, I mean, stuff like if I wanted to go to Neverland or something like that.
Mr. Mesereau: I can't hear what you're saying.
Gavin Arvizo: If I wanted to go to Neverland or something like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you think she was your friend.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you think she was a friend of your family.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you call her every week.
Gavin Arvizo: No, not really. I mean, we would call her sometimes, but I don't know if it was every week.
Mr. Mesereau: You mentioned that she had helped you set up an AOL account on the computer that Michael Jackson gave you, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when did she set up that account, if you know.
Gavin Arvizo: After Michael had given me the computer. Michael told me that he wanted to get me Internet for the computer, so he told me just like -- that's the kind of stuff I'm talking about to call Evvy, to call Evvy and she would help me set it up.
Mr. Mesereau: When you called Evvy to help set up that account, were you recovering from cancer.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I was in the middle of it -- I mean, I just started.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me, I couldn't understand that.
Gavin Arvizo: I just started chemotherapy.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you had just started chemotherapy when you first began talking to Evvy.
Gavin Arvizo: Because the first time I went up to Neverland he gave me the computer, so that's when he told me that he wanted me to get Internet. So when I came back, that's when I set it up, came back to my house. That's when I set up the Internet.
Mr. Mesereau: So you came back to your house with a computer that Michael Jackson had given you, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You called Evvy to help set up an AOL account, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You wanted an Internet account, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I thought it would be cool if I had one.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And Michael Jackson ended up paying for that, true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you requested a screen account name, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I didn't request it. Well, it's because I have the computer and they were telling me what to do. And I put my name in -- I put the screen name I wanted in there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You put the screen name you wanted in there.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. Like there's -- well, when you have the CD and you're setting it up, like it tells you to do all the things, and --
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Gavin Arvizo: -- there's a point where they have you put in what screen name you want.
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Gavin Arvizo: And I put the screen name that I wanted in there.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you do this right after you returned home with the computer Michael Jackson had given you.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably not right after. Maybe a few days after.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And was this one of the first things you did when you got home.
Gavin Arvizo: No. Because it was a few days after I got home.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So a few days after you returned from your first trip to Neverland, you tried to set up an AOL account on the computer that Mr. Jackson had given you, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, I did set up an AOL account.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the first computer you'd ever owned.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it the first computer you'd ever used.
Gavin Arvizo: No, because I -- no.
Mr. Mesereau: Explain -- let me rephrase that. When did you first learn to use a computer.
Gavin Arvizo: In the first grade.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you own a computer at any time before Mr. Jackson gave you the computer.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you knew how to use one, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I wasn't like a cyber guy, but I knew how to generally use a computer.
Mr. Mesereau: You knew what an AOL account was, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really. They told me.
Mr. Mesereau: But you immediately started to set one up when you got home with the computer Mr. Jackson gave you, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Not when I got home. A few days later.
Mr. Mesereau: You called up Evvy about setting up that account, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. Because -- well, yeah. Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And you requested a screen account name of gblade2000 --
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object to that.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember the password -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. Do you remember the prosecutor asked you questions about passwords.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you remember you talked about what passwords you wanted.
Gavin Arvizo: Not -- to the prosecutor.
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah. Did you say something about “hawk”.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, I told him that one of my screen names that I had was whitehawk344.
Mr. Mesereau: Please tell the jury what a screen name is.
Gavin Arvizo: It's on the Internet. You have like a name that you go by, and that's the screen name.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember asking Mrs. Tavasci to change the password to “sexy”, s-e-x-y.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object again. This is in violation of the Court's order.
The Court: Sustained; that is a violation. The jury's admonished to disregard that. You're instructed not to go into that.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me ask you questions about the alarm system. Do you recall the alarm system at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: I remember an alarm system that was up at -- where like you would see -- where you would -- this one house where they put all this stuff in, like his awards and his gloves, and stuff like that.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first learn about the alarm system at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, he had passwords and stuff, so I'm pretty sure those were alarm systems.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you first see an alarm system at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: I saw the code things, but I never really saw the alarm system.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, what code things are you talking about.
Gavin Arvizo: The code that you push so the doors would open.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you learn about those codes.
Gavin Arvizo: We'd go into the main house, Michael gave me a code, I guess that's what I learned about it.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember the number of the code he gave you.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember any of the code numbers at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: I remember the code to his room.
Mr. Mesereau: What was the code number to his room.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm pretty sure it was like 1960.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when did you learn that code number.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't learn that until after I came back from Miami.
Mr. Mesereau: Had you ever been -- excuse me. Had you ever learned any code number at Neverland before you got back from Miami.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. They -- when I was visiting the first time, they told me the code to the main house.
Mr. Mesereau: Who is “they”.
Gavin Arvizo: It was either Michael or the maids.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever ask anybody for the code at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, I would ask Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ever ask anybody else.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, not really. I mean, I would ask the maids sometimes when I would forget the code and they would remind me. But when I would ask -- like when I didn't know the code at all, and I would first ask, I would usually ask Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever ask any security person any code number.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see your brother or sister ask any security person for any code number.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall having the code to get into Michael's room.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall having the code to get into any other room at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never did.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I think those are the only two.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever going into any room at Neverland when Michael Jackson wasn't present, besides his bedroom.
Gavin Arvizo: I mean, there's a lot of rooms there. I don't -- maybe we'd go in the arcade and play video games. I don't know if that counts.
Mr. Mesereau: What rooms at Neverland have you been into when Michael Jackson was not present.
Gavin Arvizo: The theater. The main house. My unit. The train house -- the train station. I guess that's it.
Mr. Mesereau: Are they the only rooms you ever went into when Michael Jackson wasn't present.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, maybe the library, too.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever go into his children's bedrooms, Prince and Paris.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. Well, when Michael wasn't -- I wouldn't go in there if -- I mean, because I would go in there to visit Prince and Paris, but, I mean, I never went in there when they weren't there.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever go into Prince's room when Michael Jackson wasn't at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you sure.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really, because -- I might have walked through there or something, because, I mean, when you walk up some stairs, there's -- like all the rooms are connected between all the doors.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever go into Paris's room at Neverland when Michael Jackson was not present.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think I did. I mean, because their room is like -- because you could walk through the doll room and just go right to the upstairs. So, I mean, their room wouldn't really be a room that you can really walk through. So, I mean, I don't think I ever went into that when they weren't there.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you sure.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm pretty sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Is Prince's room near Paris's room.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't think so. I think they're like -- both doors are like in two different corners of the whole upstairs thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you been in every room in the main house.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: And why do you believe so.
Gavin Arvizo: Because I was there a long time, you know, when Paris was there -- or when Prince and Paris were there, and, like, I was there one time when they were getting ready to go to bed. I would walk through the doll room, and then I would go up to where the train thing was, and then they were having their class one time that -- Grace was teaching them. And then I went up there, and I was -- I think I was teaching Prince something. I was helping Grace. And --
Mr. Mesereau: Were you helping Grace teach --
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- the children.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Where were you helping Grace teach.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. It was probably -- I don't even think I was really helping them. I think I was helping them with a puzzle or something.
Mr. Mesereau: With a puzzle.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: You said you were helping with homework or something along those lines, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I was helping with their schooling.
Mr. Mesereau: With their schoolwork.
Gavin Arvizo: With their schooling.
Mr. Mesereau: Please tell the jury what help you were giving Grace as far as the children's schooling is concerned.
Gavin Arvizo: It wasn't really, like, teaching, like you wouldn't say, “This and this equals this”, or whatever. I was just like -- like Prince might have been doing a drawing, and I was -- I was talking to him about it, and I was saying, “Well, it's really nice”, and -- or like they might have been doing a puzzle, and I would be helping them do it or something like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you do that more than once.
Gavin Arvizo: I think I only did that once.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you ask Grace if you could help out before you did that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And she said “yes”.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How long was that session.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I think their school is only like three hours. But, I mean, I think I was only in there for, like, 30 minutes to an hour.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And was it your understanding that Michael Jackson's children do their schooling at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: I -- I -- I thought that wherever -- I thought Grace would teach them, and then Grace would go wherever they go, so I guess it would be anywhere.
Mr. Mesereau: And was this teaching going on in one of the children's bedrooms.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Where was it going on.
Gavin Arvizo: It was upstairs, like in the little playroom place.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, there's a room upstairs which has school materials, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what school materials have you seen in that room.
Gavin Arvizo: I saw this little tiny chalkboard, and then like these big floor piece puzzles, and -- I don't really remember.
Mr. Mesereau: But you've seen schoolbooks in there, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, that's where the children do their schooling, as far as you know, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I said that I think whenever Grace wants to teach them, that's where they do their schoolwork.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you've seen blackboards, you've seen school materials; correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I said I saw a little kid blackboard, but I don't even think Grace was using it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But the room you're talking about is not one of the children's bedrooms, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, was that the first time you'd been in that room.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: When was the first time you went through that room.
Gavin Arvizo: I mean, because the room wasn't really a classroom. I mean, per se. They would use it as a classroom. There would be stuff there. There would be -- to use as a classroom. There was like this video game thing there. I think it was in that room. And I think it might have been in the same room as the big train thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that Michael's children are tutored in the main house.
Gavin Arvizo: My understanding was that they are tutored, but I don't know where.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. But you don't think it's in that particular room you just described.
Gavin Arvizo: It probably was. I mean, I'm saying wherever Grace wanted it, they could have it, because it's not like she had a set classroom. It's not like they're going to New York and they're going to come back to Neverland to do their classing, their schooling.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember approximately when you helped Grace tutor the children.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably after I came back from Miami.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Wasn't before then.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you see the children tutored the first time you went to Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: No. That was the only time I ever saw them, really.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, is it true that you introduced Chris Tucker to Michael Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I think I gave -- it was either I gave Chris Michael's phone number or -- well, I think I gave Michael Chris's phone number, and then I called Chris after a while and I asked him if Michael called him yet, and then he said that he hadn't. And so then I just gave him one of Michael's phone numbers, or I gave him Evvy's phone number, I'm not sure, just so he could do it himself; he can call Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever being in Michael Jackson's bedroom and hearing the alarm go off.
Gavin Arvizo: The little “dee-do, dee-do” thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Approximately when was that.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. After Miami. I mean, but it's -- because -- I mean, when you're up in his bedroom, like you can hear it, but it's not as good as if you're downstairs, but you can still kind of hear it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you were initially interviewed by the sheriffs, you were asked about what happened after the Bashir documentary was on television, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when did you first hear about the Bashir documentary that appeared on television.
Gavin Arvizo: On the news and from Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you watching the news at home when you first heard about it.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't really know that it was the Bashir documentary per se. But I knew that they were talking about kids sleeping in his room or whatever.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you mentioned to the sheriffs about people coming to your house and bothering you, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did that first start.
Gavin Arvizo: I think after we came back from Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You say after you came back from Neverland. When was that.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. I'm not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, when you told the sheriffs that people were coming to your house and bothering you, what were you referring to.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, one time we caught one of Michael's security guys that we thought he was standing in -- trying to stand behind a car, and then my stepdad went out and was like -- asked him what he was doing, and then we saw him run, and --
Mr. Mesereau: Well, your mother had asked for security because she said your family was being hassled, didn't she.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know if she asked him or -- who are you saying that she asked.
Mr. Mesereau: You never heard your mother say she wanted some security because your family was being hassled.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I knew that she didn't like it, but, I mean, I don't know if she asked for security.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. We talked last week briefly about all the conversations you had with Michael Jackson at the hospital, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You had initially testified that there was just one call, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, it's like -- I don't -- I'm probably sure I called him more than once, but, I mean, the one I'm for sure of is the first time he called me to go up to Neverland for the first time.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the sheriffs there were times when you would speak to Mr. Jackson on the phone for hours, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you used to talk about, if you remember.
Gavin Arvizo: We would talk about, like, video games or people I knew, and people he knew, or a CD he might be trying to do or a song or something, or his life, or my cancer, or Simpsons and Disney cartoons.
Mr. Mesereau: And you had a lot of those discussions in the hospital, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you had discussions after you got out of the hospital, right.
Gavin Arvizo: We would have discussions, yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would have discussions after you got out of the hospital at home, right.
Gavin Arvizo: They were -- a majority of them, if not all of them, were -- well, the majority of them were at my grandmother's house.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And would you call Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Sometimes I would call him, and he would call me sometimes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And these conversations would last sometimes a couple hours, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said you would talk about cancer. You would talk about the Simpsons. You would talk about video games, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember anything else you talked about.
Gavin Arvizo: That's pretty much it right there.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall your first trip to Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you get there.
Gavin Arvizo: They had us pack all our bags, and then a limousine came in the front of my grandmother's house. And we were all surprised because we didn't think we were going to go up in a limousine. Well, I didn't think I was going to go up in a limousine. I didn't know that we were. And I was really happy, because that was the first time I'd ever been in a limousine. And we threw all our bags in there and then we went up to Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Who told you you were going be picked up to go to Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I believe my parents set it up. But I don't know who really told me. I knew what day and I knew Michael wanted me to go up, but, I mean, I didn't really know, like, all the logistical stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: When you were responding to Prosecutor Sneddon's questions, do you remember discussing Jay Leno.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, isn't it true that in none of your interviews with the sheriffs and never when you testified before the grand jury on two occasions did you ever mention Jay Leno, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Because I thought he didn't have anything to do with this case.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Prosecutor Sneddon tell you at some point that Mr. Leno had something to do with the case.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Well, he asked me about what I know about Jay Leno and how I came about to have him in my -- well, not really have him, but, I mean, how he -- I don't know how to say it. Like, he pretty much just asked me what I know about Jay Leno.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Prosecutor Sneddon tell you that I had mentioned Jay Leno in this courtroom.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he tell you how the name Jay Leno had come up in the case.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: When did Prosecutor Sneddon first mention the name Jay Leno to you.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, actually, it wasn't really -- Mr. Sneddon was there, but I believe it was -- I don't remember who exactly asked me, but I remember him being there, and I remember Mr. Sneddon shaking his head, but I don't think it was Mr. Sneddon that actually asked me.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when this meeting took place.
Gavin Arvizo: Before I even -- maybe a day or two before I first came to testify here.
Mr. Mesereau: So it was after this trial had started, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did Mr. Sneddon call you on the phone to discuss this.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I met with him.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did someone ask you to come meet with Mr. Sneddon.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who was that.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't remember. I remember they told me that I was going to, but I don't remember who exactly.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember where the meeting took place.
Gavin Arvizo: In a house.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did Mr. Sneddon ask you to testify that Jay Leno was your favorite comedian.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When did the idea that Jay Leno was your favorite comedian come up in this case.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, Jay Leno was my favorite comedian, but I don't really understand what --
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember calling Jay Leno on the telephone.
Gavin Arvizo: I remember calling -- yeah, I remember calling his phone.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember speaking with Jay Leno on the telephone.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I never spoke with Jay Leno.
Mr. Mesereau: At any time.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever try to reach Jay Leno on the telephone.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who did you call, if you know.
Gavin Arvizo: I called a phone number that I was given.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you get the phone number.
Gavin Arvizo: It was either Jamie Masada or Louise Palanker.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you dial the number.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was your mother with you.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Was anybody in the background.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, when I called him, I'm pretty sure that I was in the hospital, so either it could have been my dad, or maybe a nurse that would come in to do my vital signs or something.
Mr. Mesereau: And you dialed the number, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you have any idea who answered the phone.
Gavin Arvizo: Answering machine.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ever actually get Mr. Leno on the phone.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: So you deny you've ever spoken to him on the phone, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I've never spoken to Jay Leno.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You never mentioned Mr. Leno to Psychologist Stanley Katz, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never mentioned Mr. Leno to Lieutenant Klapakis during any interview, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I've never mentioned Jay Leno to anybody. Except --
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry.
Gavin Arvizo: Except for when they asked me what I know about Jay Leno.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did anybody in your family contact, or try to contact, Mr. Leno while you were ill.
Gavin Arvizo: No. Because I was the only one with the phone number.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever give it to your mother.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever give it to your father.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever give it to Star.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever give it to your sister Davellin.
Gavin Arvizo: Her name is Davellin. But, no, I never gave it to her.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You left a message on his machine, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever get a call back from anyone claiming they represented Mr. Leno.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. So what you're saying is if anybody spoke to Mr. Leno and said they were you, it was certainly a false statement, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as argumentative, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Gavin Arvizo: I never spoke to --
The Court: Just a moment. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: Has Prosecutor Sneddon ever discussed with you his conversation with Mr. Leno.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, object. Assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Sustained. Assumes facts not in evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Has Prosecutor Sneddon ever told you that he had a conversation with Jay Leno about this case.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Has Prosecutor Sneddon ever told you that any Santa Barbara sheriff had a conversation with Jay Leno about this case.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never told you that at all.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you hear the alarm in Michael Jackson's bedroom more than once.
Gavin Arvizo: The little “dee-do” sound.
Mr. Mesereau: The alarm.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, like when Frank would come in or something, you could hear it.
Mr. Mesereau: You could hear the alarm go off.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: How many ringing sounds would you hear.
Gavin Arvizo: It would go like three times, “dee-do, dee-do”, like three times. And that's how many ringing sounds it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever discussed that alarm system with your brother Star.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk to your brother Star about what he said about the alarm system in this courtroom.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you discussed with your brother Star anything you said in this courtroom.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times do you think you entered Michael Jackson's bedroom when Mr. Jackson wasn't there.
Gavin Arvizo: I never went inside his room when he wasn't there.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did your brother ever go into his room when he wasn't there.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think my brother went into his room when he wasn't there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you have no knowledge of him doing that, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Prosecutor Sneddon asked you questions about your father abusing you and your mother, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: You always refer to David as your biological father, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did someone ask you to use that term.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you start calling him “my biological father”.
Gavin Arvizo: Because I accepted my now father Jay Jackson as my real father, because he's more of a father than my real father ever was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You testified that Michael Jackson and Frank showed you a computer and went to websites with naked women, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that.
Gavin Arvizo: That was like on the first night that we were inside his room that we were going to go to sleep.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said it was like an Apple computer; is that right.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not sure, because I don't remember -- I think it was Frank's computer because -- it wouldn't be mine, because I didn't set up the AOL account until, like, after I came back, so it was probably Frank's computer.
Mr. Mesereau: Was your computer an Apple computer.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You told the sheriffs that it was either your computer or Frank's computer during one of your interviews, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Frank's computer an Apple computer.
Gavin Arvizo: I think it was probably a Sony computer.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told the sheriffs that Frank started looking at girls on those sites, right.
Gavin Arvizo: He started, like, typing up stuff, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he ask you to join in.
Gavin Arvizo: No, well, he was -- he had it on his bed and he set it up, and there were -- well, Frank was typing in stuff and looking. And me, Michael and my brother were there.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that when you say that Michael Jackson looked at a naked girl on the computer and said, “Got milk”.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, to your knowledge, did Michael Jackson or Frank ever show you a website on a computer like that at any other time.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the only time.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And Frank's the one who initially was pressing the buttons to look up the site, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You also testified that at some point Michael Jackson showed you some girlie magazines, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And I believe you mentioned Hustler and Playboy to the sheriffs, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You also testified that at some point Michael Jackson pretended that he was having sex with a female mannequin, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you also told the jury that at some point Michael Jackson mentioned the word “clitoris”, or “clitoris”, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you testify to that.
Gavin Arvizo: (Shakes head from side to side.)
Mr. Mesereau: Ever tell the sheriffs that.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And your testimony to the jury is that after Michael Jackson showed you women on websites, after he showed you Hustler and Playboy, which are girlie magazines, and after he pretended to have sex with a female mannequin, he then at some point masturbated you; is that correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that what you told the sheriffs.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, I told the sheriffs about that.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some point, you went to the Hilton Hotel to visit Michael Jackson, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that.
Gavin Arvizo: I was in my second round of chemotherapy.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were with your father, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you say that was around the time of your second round of chemotherapy.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who invited you to the Hilton Hotel.
Gavin Arvizo: It was either I called Michael or Michael called me, and I asked him where he was. And then he told me that he was in -- more like near -- around L.A. And then I asked him -- I think I asked him -- yeah, I asked him if I could visit him.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: And then he said it was okay. And so I went up there and visited him for like two hours.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long were you there.
Gavin Arvizo: Two hours.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. With your dad, right.
Gavin Arvizo: My dad was in another room. And then with me and Michael, we were in his bedroom with Prince and Paris, and we were watching Aaron Carter's music videos.
Mr. Mesereau: And Prince and Paris were there the whole time, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you get to the Hilton.
Gavin Arvizo: My dad drove me there.
Mr. Mesereau: And he drove you in an SUV that Michael Jackson had given your family, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know when Michael Jackson gave your family that SUV.
Gavin Arvizo: I think it was like right after my second round of chemotherapy, Gary came and -- I think he was going to drive me up from Neverland right after my second round. And then once I went in -- he drove me up in the truck, and then I walked up to the truck, and I was like, “Is this Michael's truck”. And he was like, “Yeah”. And I said, “Wow, my grandfather has one that looks exactly like this one”. And Gary was like, “Well, this one's yours now”.
Mr. Mesereau: That was Gary Hearn.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And just -- Gary Hearn was an employee of Mr. Jackson's, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you're telling the jury that Gary Hearn told you that your family owned the SUV, right.
Gavin Arvizo: He told me that Michael gave it to us.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did he leave it at your house, to your knowledge.
Gavin Arvizo: No, we were coming -- it was in the garage of the hospital, and I went in there, and there's like a little bow in the center console between the two seats and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: You complained to the sheriffs that someone had taken that truck back, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. I said I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: You complained to the sheriffs that your family thought it was their truck, and at some point someone representing Mr. Jackson took the truck back and never returned it to you, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, I think it was that we had the truck and somebody crashed into it or something. And then we had asked Michael if they can fix it and give it back to us. And then we gave it -- we -- they had it, they got the truck so that they can fix it and give it back to us, and they never gave it back to us.
Mr. Mesereau: Who crashed the truck.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think it was someone -- I think someone crashed into it.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know who was driving it at the time.
Gavin Arvizo: I think it might have been parked. I'm not sure. I don't really know how it happened exactly.
Mr. Mesereau: It might have been who.
Gavin Arvizo: It might have been parked while it went -- and someone, like, ran into it or something, because I don't really remember how exactly --
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, but somebody ran into it while your family had possession of it, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, well, we owned it.
Mr. Mesereau: When you owned it, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And at some point, someone in your family asked if Mr. Jackson would pay to repair it, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm pretty sure. I mean --
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm pretty sure.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Let me just make sure I understand. You're pretty sure that someone in your family asked if Mr. Jackson would pay to repair the SUV that you claimed he gave your family, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. Because, I mean, it had to have been like that, because the guy came to fix it.
Mr. Mesereau: And you did complain to the sheriffs that the truck was never returned to your family, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Because you believed that your family owned the truck at that point, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Because Michael said he -- well, Gary said that Michael said he gave it to me. And then I called Michael later to thank him, and he said, “Yeah, it's your truck now”.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. People in your family -- well, I shouldn't say that. You were personally upset about that, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me, vague as to what “that” is.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it.
Mr. Mesereau: You were upset that your family never got that truck back, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I was more sad because then we didn't have a vehicle to use to go anywhere.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall ever asking Chris Tucker for a vehicle.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know of any member of your family ever doing that.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Never heard of anything like that.
Gavin Arvizo: I remember Chris gave us -- was going to give us a vehicle.
Mr. Mesereau: And what happened.
Gavin Arvizo: It never was able to -- I mean, someone lost the key and something like that, and that was the only key, and then -- and then I think all this stuff started.
Mr. Mesereau: So you never got a vehicle from Chris Tucker, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you upset about that.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I mean, I was kind of sad, but I mean -- yeah, I mean, it's like he was going to give it up, that would be nice, so I don't really have that much of a right to be angry.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you complained to the Santa Barbara Sheriffs that, “After I was done with my cancer stuff”, you never saw Michael again, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No, not until the Martin Bashir thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you wanted to see him after you were in remission, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You wanted to visit Neverland after you were in remission, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you felt in some way that Michael had cut off the friendship, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You felt he had abandoned you, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you felt he had abandoned your family, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some point you told the sheriffs that Michael had given your family a Bronco, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe -- I'm pretty sure that the GMC was called Bronco.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you sure about that.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not exactly sure what kind of truck it was.
Mr. Mesereau: You also complained to the Santa Barbara Sheriffs that your computer had gotten messed up, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I think I did. The battery stopped working. It wasn't -- the computer just wouldn't turn on. It would always stay black.
Mr. Mesereau: This was the computer that Michael Jackson had given you, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And at some point you asked to have Michael Jackson fix the computer, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I told my mom about it. And then my mom said, well, we could probably call Evvy and they can help us fix it. And then I called Evvy and asked her if they can fix it for me. And Evvy said yes. And then so we mailed it to her or dropped it off or something like that, and then I never got it back.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, actually, your mother asked Evvy if Michael Jackson would fix the computer, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know who exactly asked.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you told the sheriffs that your mother had asked, didn't you.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you a page of the transcript of your interview.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that page --
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- of your police interview. Does it refresh your recollection about what you told Santa Barbara Sheriffs.
Gavin Arvizo: A little bit. I mean --
Mr. Mesereau: You told him that your mother asked to have the computer repaired, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. But as I told you, I'm not -- as of right now -- I mean, that interview took place a while ago. I mean, I'm not sure who exactly called. But in the transcript it says that, so that's probably what happened.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Is it your belief that your mother called Evvy.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Your mother used to call Evvy a fair amount, didn't she.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see your mother call Evvy.
Gavin Arvizo: Maybe once or twice.
Mr. Mesereau: Not -- no --
Gavin Arvizo: Maybe -- I'm pretty sure I saw her call for the computer, because I asked her. And I'm not sure exactly how many times she called Evvy.
Mr. Mesereau: And you complained to the Santa Barbara Sheriffs that you never got the computer back, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, I told them that I didn't get the computer back.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you used to communicate with Evvy by e-mail.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. I don't think I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Are you sure about that.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you know how to use e-mail at that point.
Gavin Arvizo: A little bit. I mean, it was kind of hard. Well, it wasn't really hard. I just didn't really understand it at first, and then I got the hang of it, but --
Mr. Mesereau: You indicated at the Hilton you watched music videos with Mr. Jackson, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know why Mr. Jackson was at the Hilton.
Gavin Arvizo: I think he was doing some recording thing. Well, yeah, he told me that he was going to do some recording in Los Angeles, or something like that.
Mr. Mesereau: And at some point you complained to the sheriffs that Mr. Jackson had changed his phone numbers after you visited the Hilton, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, that was the only phone number I left -- or I called -- well, I'm not sure. Because the only phone number that never changed was Evvy's phone number. And I would call her and I would ask her sometimes where Michael was or something. And then -- and I had the phone number to his hotel, so I think I called him at his hotel and asked him if I could go visit him. I think it was around -- I'm not sure when exactly.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first get upset about your phone numbers for Michael Jackson not working.
Gavin Arvizo: Maybe around the third or fourth chemotherapy round I called his numbers and it would be, like, “This phone number is no longer in service”. Or sometimes it would just ring and it wouldn't never -- no one would ever pick up or something like that.
Mr. Mesereau: This was after your cancer was in remission.
Gavin Arvizo: No, this was around the third or fourth cancer -- round of chemotherapy.
Mr. Mesereau: Suddenly his phone numbers didn't work, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you try to get ahold of phone numbers that would work.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you've indicated that you were upset that the phone numbers you had for Mr. Jackson at some point didn't work, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And the phone numbers you had for Mr. Jackson began to not work after it appeared that your cancer was in remission, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I said they stopped working after my third or fourth chemotherapy round.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Before that, could you easily call him.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And before that, did you often call him.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. And he would call me and stuff. We would talk -- we talked a lot more before then.
Mr. Mesereau: In fact, you called him at the Universal -- Hilton Universal the day you visited, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe so. I'm not too sure how it came about.
Mr. Mesereau: Who did you complain to about your phone numbers to Mr. Jackson not working.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't complain to anybody.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever mention it to your mother.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm pretty sure I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever mention it to your brother and sister.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm pretty sure I did -- well, the first person I told was my biological father, and then -- because he was usually the one always with me like when we would go up to Neverland or go with me to -- with Chris or something.
Mr. Mesereau: So you complained to your biological father David that around the time of your third chemotherapy treatment the phone numbers you had for Michael Jackson were not working, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to the question, the use of the first part of it, because I believe that's not his testimony, so it assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer. Do you want the question read back.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
The Court Reporter: So you complained to your biological father David that around the time of your third chemotherapy treatment the phone numbers you had for Michael Jackson were not working, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't really complain. I mean, I was in the hospital, and -- I was either in the hospital or at my grandmother's house or something. And I told my dad that -- I told my biological father that they weren't working anymore.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, when you first started talking to Michael Jackson in the hospital, you talked to him about your cancer, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And he used to talk to you about ways to deal with it, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Sometimes he would, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And he tried to encourage you to believe in yourself and you could heal, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. He would tell me that like -- that -- to -- like this one time he told me to eat up cancer cells like a Pac Man. Something like that.
Mr. Mesereau: And what he told you was to sort of visualize in your mind Pac Man eating up bad cancer cells, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you do that.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever try to visualize.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, yeah, I think I did once, but I mean --
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when you had your third chemotherapy treatment, you were getting encouraging signs from the doctor, right, about beating cancer.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were being told that it looked like you might beat this thing, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't really get told that until my fifth chemotherapy round where they had that CT scan.
Mr. Mesereau: But didn't you complain to the Santa Barbara Sheriffs that after your cancer was over, Michael stopped communicating with you.
Gavin Arvizo: It wasn't after my cancer. It was toward the beginning of my third chemotherapy round.
Mr. Mesereau: You told them, “After I was done with my cancer stuff”, you couldn't call Michael anymore, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I couldn't call Michael either at that period, or the period when I had cancer.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you were undergoing chemotherapy, you visited Neverland with Chris Tucker on a couple of occasions, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know if it was during my cancer. I think it was -- I visited him after. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when was that, if you know.
Gavin Arvizo: I went up there with his birthday for Dustin, so whenever his birthday is.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry, I can't hear you.
Gavin Arvizo: I went up there whenever his birthday was, whenever Dustin's birthday was. But I don't know what came first, either the Martin Bashir thing or Dustin's birthday. I'm not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: And Michael Jackson wasn't there, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know how that trip got arranged.
Gavin Arvizo: Which trip.
Mr. Mesereau: The trip with Chris Tucker to Neverland when Michael Jackson wasn't even there.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I'm not sure if Dustin -- well, if it was Dustin's birthday or Chris's -- or, I mean, the Martin Bashir thing. So I'm not -- I don't know how it got arranged that we'd go up there. I mean, I don't -- like -- I don't really know whether it was like a limousine or something.
Mr. Mesereau: But you don't know who set that up, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Not exactly. Well, the -- I think the Martin Bashir thing I went up there with Chris. And then with the Dustin thing, I went up there in Chris's bus with a bunch of other people, his family and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you telling the jury that when you did the Martin Bashir filming, Chris Tucker was with you.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, I'm -- I don't know whether he drove me up there or not. I -- because I'm not too sure how, like, all this stuff -- how I got up there. But I know I went up there with Chris for Dustin's birthday.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember Chris being there when you were filmed for the Bashir documentary.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know, because I think I might have went up there with Chris, because I remember going up there with Chris one time when we were riding horses, and then he was wearing like this -- this thing that like only like sheiks would wear, and he was joking around, and we were all riding horses and stuff. And I don't know -- I think it might have been around the time that I was -- that Martin -- that the Martin Bashir thing got filmed.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, Chris Tucker wasn't in the Bashir documentary, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you leave Neverland after that visit with Chris.
Gavin Arvizo: After -- well --
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me, I'm going to object as vague as to “that visit”. We've discussed a couple of them.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: When you were at Neverland to film what became part of the Bashir documentary, at some point you went home, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you go home with Chris Tucker.
Gavin Arvizo: No. We stood there and we went swimming and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: What was the state of your cancer when you filmed what became part of the Bashir documentary.
Gavin Arvizo: The Martin Bashir interview thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: I was in remission.
Mr. Mesereau: And for how long had you been in remission at that point.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not sure when it was filmed. So I'm not sure how long.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if it was a number of months.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. Definitely.
Mr. Mesereau: At that point, could you reach Michael Jackson by telephone if you wanted to.
Gavin Arvizo: No, after the Martin Bashir thing, he didn't give me any phone numbers, because he left, like, either the same day or the day after the Martin Bashir interview, and I didn't really get any other phone numbers.
Mr. Mesereau: But your phone numbers for Michael Jackson stopped working before the Bashir documentary, didn't they.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Michael called me to go up to Neverland. He said that he was trying to find me or something like that to go -- for him to talk to me, and then he wanted me to go up to the Martin Bashir -- well, he didn't tell me that. He told me he wanted me to go up to his ranch and visit him.
Mr. Mesereau: You hadn't been able to call Michael Jackson by phone for many, many months before you were filmed in the Bashir documentary, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I was not able -- well, I didn't have a phone number.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, in the year 2001, you don't recall ever going to Neverland, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You started going in the year 2000, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't go there in the year 2001, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And at some point you heard from Michael Jackson and went there for the Bashir filming, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you visited Neverland a number of times in the year 2000 with your biological father, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you remember if Michael Jackson was there during those visits.
Gavin Arvizo: I think he was there for the -- I think he was there once. The first time I went there he was there. And then I think the second time I went there, he was there and then he had to leave.
Mr. Mesereau: When your father was at Neverland with you, did you ever stay in Michael Jackson's room.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I only stood on the first night, and then the rest of the nights I just stood in, like, the units and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you say you stayed there the first night, is that the night you described where Michael Jackson and Frank slept on the floor, and you and your brother slept on the bed. Is that what you're talking about.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: And is it your testimony that that first visit, you had dinner in the main house with your family and Michael Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And during that dinner, was there a discussion about whether or not you and Star could sleep in Michael Jackson's room.
Gavin Arvizo: The first day.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. Like, we were in Michael's office and then we were talking about stuff, and then Michael told me to ask if I could go sleep in his room so we can watch, like, movies and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there a discussion at the dinner table that evening with your parents and Michael Jackson about whether or not you could stay in his room.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Michael told me to ask my parents in front of him and my parents.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ask your parents in front of Mr. Jackson at the dinner table that evening.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did your parents both approve you and your brother staying in Michael Jackson's room.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's the night you say Michael and Frank slept on the floor, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever ask either of your parents after that whether you could stay in Michael Jackson's room.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't think you ever asked them that question again.
Gavin Arvizo: I think it was like we only stood there that one night, and then after that, we stood in our units or something. Because I think that's the only night I slept in his room, the first night.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You said after that, you had stayed in the guest units.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And are the guest units where your mother was staying.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, there's a lot of guest units, so I think me and my brother had a room. Me and my brother and my sister had a room, and my mom and my dad had another room.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you and your brother would stay in those guest units, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately how many of those trips to Neverland do you think you and your brother stayed in the guest units.
Gavin Arvizo: After that first night we would stay in there every night we would go there, every time, or sometimes we would go to the train house and sleep up there.
Mr. Mesereau: You'd sleep in the train house.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Please tell the jury where the train house is.
Gavin Arvizo: It's on top of a -- like you come -- like the guest units are right here, and you go up the side of this hill, and then up there there's like this train station. And then you can sleep in there, because there's, like, couches, and you can roll out a bed, and then there's a T.V. there and stuff. It was pretty cool.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times do you think you and your brother stayed in the train house.
Gavin Arvizo: A few nights, I guess.
Mr. Mesereau: When you visited Neverland with Chris Tucker, did you stay in the train house.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. I think so. I think that's the time that we stood in the train house.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know where Chris Tucker stayed when you visited Neverland with Chris Tucker.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever go into his room.
Gavin Arvizo: I think we might have. I don't know. I mean, I don't know where he stood right as of now. I mean, I don't remember, but I don't -- I think we went into his room to, like, say, “Let's go do this”, or something like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me ask you this: After the first night your family was at Neverland, when do you next remember your mother visiting Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Not until after we came back from Miami.
Mr. Mesereau: So you don't think your mother ever visited Neverland between your first visit in the year 2000 and right after the Miami trip.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. I don't think she did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You don't recall her being there at all.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you recall your father being there once or twice.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I recall my father being there every time I went up there.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many times was that.
Gavin Arvizo: When I had cancer, it was -- well, he went up there every time that I had cancer. And he was -- I'm not sure how many times I stood there. That was -- because I think I stopped going out there after my fourth chemotherapy round. And so it was -- probably we went there, like, four or five times, or something like that, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point you learned about the Bashir documentary by watching television, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I didn't really know it was the Bashir documentary until I -- we started talking about it more with Chris, and stuff like that. And I just remember watching the news and they were talking about kids and Michael, but I didn't really know they were talking about the Martin Bashir documentary.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you were watching CNN, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I think I was. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: And at some point you saw a reference to yourself being in the Bashir documentary, right. Is that true.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't know it was the Bashir documentary, but they said -- I personally thought it was some guy that was saying stuff about Michael. And they were talking -- I thought they mentioned my name when they were talking about Michael. But I didn't know it was the Martin Bashir documentary until, like, we started talking to Chris and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: But you told the Santa Barbara Sheriffs your name was mentioned a lot, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I think I only told them my name was mentioned maybe -- I don't think “a lot”. But, I mean, I did think my name was mentioned.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the sheriffs, “Because on, like, CNN and stuff, they started saying, like, Gavin -- Gavin this and Gavin that, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't remember. I mean, I guess I did, because it's in the transcript.
Mr. Mesereau: Were they really mentioning your name on the newscasts.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times did you hear your name mentioned on the newscasts.
Gavin Arvizo: Three or four times. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you -- were you watching that with your mom.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Our whole family was watching it.
Mr. Mesereau: And generally speaking, would you say your family was upset.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you recall your mother ever calling up Michael Jackson to talk about it.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I remember Michael calling us.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall your mother ever discussing the fact that you had legal rights regarding that show.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I mean -- the Martin Bashir thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall your mother ever discussing her claim that she never gave permission for you to be on a show.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, yes. I remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when is the first time you heard your mother complain about her not giving proper permission for you to be on the show.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever going to a lawyer with your mother to discuss your legal rights in that regard.
Gavin Arvizo: Hmm, I'm not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember discussing that with Attorney Bill Dickerman.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, yeah, yeah. We went to The Laugh Factory and we talked to Bill. My mom was talking to him. I mean, I was, like, playing around or something. I was -- like, with the microphone.
Mr. Mesereau: And the discussion concerned, among other things, the fact that you had legal rights in that documentary, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I guess. I mean, I wasn't really paying attention. I was kind of bored.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall -- do you remember the rebuttal video.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember you went to Hamid's home to film the rebuttal video.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember discussions before you filmed that video about whether or not your mother was going to sign a release.
Gavin Arvizo: Not too sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember anything like that.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You claim that Michael Jackson called you on the phone and said there's going to be a press conference in Florida, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you want to be in a press conference.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. I wanted to, like, say that Michael was a good guy and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were disappointed when you got to Florida and no press conference took place, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I guess. But, I mean, I was still kind of having fun, so it wasn't that big of a deal to me.
Mr. Mesereau: I couldn't hear what you said.
Gavin Arvizo: I was still having fun, so it wasn't really that big of a deal to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you thought that you were going to Florida to appear in a press conference with Michael Jackson, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You flew on Chris Tucker's plane to Florida, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You stayed at a luxury hotel, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You came back a couple of days later, right.
Gavin Arvizo: We went right to Neverland after we came back.
Mr. Mesereau: And there never was a press conference that you appeared at in Florida, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And that upset you, didn't it.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, as I said, not really. Because it wasn't -- I mean, I thought we were. I mean -- and then he said that we're not going to. Well, he didn't really say that we're not going to. I mean, it never really happened, so it's like -- I was like, “Okay, whatever”. I mean -- and I was still having fun playing around and stuff, playing video games and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: When you were in Miami, you stayed with your mom in a room, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: That was at the Turnberry Hotel, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: That was a floor below Michael Jackson's suite, true.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: It wasn't a floor below.
Gavin Arvizo: I said that I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember your mother ever complaining that she wanted to be in Michael Jackson's suite.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never heard anything like that.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And you say you never stayed overnight in Mr. Jackson's room at the Turnberry in Miami, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I never stood in his room.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling the Santa Barbara Sheriffs that Michael Jackson first touched you inappropriately during your last days at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you telling the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: This was shortly before Vinnie drove your family to your grandparents', right.
Gavin Arvizo: Not -- well, it was like a week or -- probably two weeks before Vinnie drove us back.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you said to the sheriffs it was during the last days at Neverland, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, days equals -- seven days equals a week, so it could be days. So, I mean, it was more like a week or two.
Mr. Mesereau: We'll get to that. Did you discuss over the weekend with Prosecutor Sneddon exactly when you say this inappropriate touching took place.
Gavin Arvizo: No. Not over this -- no.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have any discussion at all with the prosecutors last night about when you say the inappropriate touching took place.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, when you claim you were masturbated, were you wearing pajamas.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, I was wearing Michael's pajamas.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, clearly during the last days at Neverland, you and your family, from what you say, wanted to leave, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, my mom always wanted to leave. I wanted to stay, because I was having lots of fun, but my mom was always really worried.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, at some point you say you escaped from Neverland, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You've told the jury you escaped a couple of times before the final escape, which was when you left for good --
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: So what you are telling this jury is that after a couple of escapes, and following your return from those escapes, you claim you were inappropriately touched. That's what you're saying, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as argumentative, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer. Do you want the question read back.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
The Court Reporter: So what you are telling this jury is that after a couple of escapes, and following your return from those escapes, you claim you were inappropriately touched. That's what you're saying, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you told the sheriffs that after Miami, you slept in Michael Jackson's room every night, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I slept in his room every night that Michael was there.
Mr. Mesereau: And this would include visits when your mother was staying at Neverland, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you telling the jury that you never discussed your staying in Michael's room with your mother.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really, because my mom was always in her unit. She was never outside or with us really. I mean, so we would just go into Michael's room.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you telling the jury that your mother never asked you, during any of those visits, “Where are you spending the night”.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really, because I think she thought we were sleeping in our unit. I mean, because she was always in her unit.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you telling the jury your mother never left her unit at any time after the Miami trip.
Gavin Arvizo: She probably left a few times, but, I mean, mainly she was always in her unit.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many nights do you think you spent in Michael Jackson's room after the Miami trip.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not sure because, I mean, every time that Michael was there, me and my brother would be in his room.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never had one discussion with your mom at any time after Miami about where you were staying at night.
Gavin Arvizo: I might have. I don't think I did. I'm pretty sure that I didn't, because she was never really involved in what we were doing at Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've told the jury that you and your brother were drinking every single night, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Every night that Michael was there.
Mr. Mesereau: You were drinking alcohol every single night that Michael was there; is that what you're saying.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How about the nights that Michael wasn't there.
Gavin Arvizo: We wouldn't drink. I mean --
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you and your brother were caught by employees at Neverland drinking when Michael wasn't there, weren't you.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never happened.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: No one ever walked in the wine cellar at Neverland and caught you and your brother drinking when Michael wasn't there.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know where the key was to the wine cellar.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did your brother know where the key was to the wine cellar.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think he ever knew. He was always with me everywhere we went.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn where the key was to the wine cellar.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: To this day, you don't know.
Gavin Arvizo: To this day, I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Never discussed it with your brother.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, correct me if I'm wrong, you've told the jury -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. You've told the sheriffs that Michael Jackson would give you and your brother Bacardi, right.
Gavin Arvizo: That was one of the things he gave us, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: That was rum, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you also said he'd give you Skyy Vodka, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Jim Beam, which was bourbon, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know what it is, but, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And red and white wine, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you drink all this stuff at once.
Gavin Arvizo: No, it was over the whole period of time that we were over there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But never once did you taste any of this stuff when Michael wasn't there.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Never took any alcohol out of the refrigerator in the kitchen, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never got caught taking alcohol out of the refrigerator in the kitchen, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I never took any alcohol out of the refrigerator in the kitchen.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, was your brother ever caught taking alcohol out of the refrigerator in the kitchen.
Gavin Arvizo: I was always with him during the day, so no, he didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you told the sheriffs at some point your mother was scared and wanted to leave Neverland, right.
Gavin Arvizo: My mom was scared, like, the whole time.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss your mother being scared with your mother at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have talks with her about it.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And at no time during any of those discussions did where you and Star were sleeping at night come up.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as asked and answered, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You talked about a black suitcase. Do you remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first see the black suitcase.
Gavin Arvizo: The same night that we came back from Miami.
Mr. Mesereau: And this is right after the Miami trip.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: The first night you're back.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you first see it.
Gavin Arvizo: In Michael's, like, bathroom room, and, like, he had all this stuff. Like he had, like, a sink and a bathtub and a mirror and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: Before I explore that subject, you've talked to the jury about Michael Jackson giving you a watch that you claim he said was worth $75,000, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's the watch you claim that others wanted to get back from you, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, yes. Like the -- I think Frank wanted me to give it back or something like that.
Mr. Mesereau: So after the Miami trip, you had the watch, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You claimed that Mr. Jackson told you it was worth $75,000, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you wearing it.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. I believe so, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did Frank or someone else notice the watch, to your knowledge.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss the watch with Frank.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really in -- I think Chris -- I mean, Frank wanted me to give it back. And then I told Michael, and Michael was like, “No, no, that's your watch. I gave it to you”.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you have a discussion with Frank about whether you should return it.
Gavin Arvizo: Frank, I think, wanted me to return it, and Michael told me not to.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point, did you ever complain to anyone that that watch was not worth $75,000.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I always thought it was worth $75,000.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn at some point it wasn't.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: To this day, is that what you think.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm pretty sure that's how much it's worth.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall the Make a Wish Foundation.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have experience with them.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What is your experiences with Make a Wish Foundation.
Gavin Arvizo: They called me up because I have cancer. They do it for everybody that has -- every child that has cancer. And then they call you up and say that, “You have one wish”, and they tell you that, “Pretend I'm the genie, and you have one wish that you can have”. And then I asked them -- first I asked -- I wanted a dog, like a little puppy, a beagle, but my, like, dad -- my parents said that I can't have a beagle because it can get me sick. So I ended up just asking for a vacation.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you obtain any benefits from that foundation; do you know.
Gavin Arvizo: Just a vacation.
Mr. Mesereau: They paid for a vacation.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, the doctor said to not go, because I would have -- because I had -- like, it was such a big amount of chemotherapy, that it would wipe out every single one of the blood cells that I had. So I would -- it would be bad if I get a fever, because I was getting lots of fevers, because my white blood cells can't fight it because they're so little. And I would have to go in the hospital, and then they'd have to give me antibiotics. And if I was over in Hawaii, and I got a fever because of some bacteria or something that was in me, I -- I wouldn't be able to go back, and then I would get really sick.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Michael Jackson ever help you make contact with that foundation.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't believe so. I believe the hospital social worker did.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever discussing with Mr. Jackson the Make a Wish Foundation.
Gavin Arvizo: I think I asked him if he donated money to the Make a Wish Foundation.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall what he said.
Gavin Arvizo: He said that he did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know when you discussed that with him.
Gavin Arvizo: I think it was like when he was doing the rebuttal thing, when he was getting ready to do the rebuttal. He was writing down all the foundations that he ever donated to.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you have a discussion with him about that.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really. I mean, I saw him -- I mean, we were talking about it, or whatever, and then we were like, “Okay, okay”, and then we left and we were playing some more.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you mentioned on your first day of testimony that when you showed up for the Bashir filming, there was some discussion about a burn victim.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Tell the jury what that was about.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, there was a boy there that had gotten burned really bad, and then Michael said that he helped him or something. And then that he was going to -- that he was going to film him, too. So --
Mr. Mesereau: Were you supposed to be in the same film.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you have a discussion with Michael about that subject.
Gavin Arvizo: About me being in there.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever meet this person who was burned.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, I think Michael introduced me to him.
Mr. Mesereau: And when was this.
Gavin Arvizo: Around the same time as the Martin Bashir thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk to this person.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember the person's name.
Gavin Arvizo: I think his name might have been David.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it Rothenberg.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Was this a young man that you learned's father had poured gasoline on him and set him on fire.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: I think that's what happened.
Mr. Mesereau: And he was supposed to be in the film with you, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And correct me if I'm wrong, you discussed with Michael the fact that Michael had helped this young boy, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you talk to this young boy about what he had experienced.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever see him.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And please describe for the jury what he looked like.
Gavin Arvizo: He looked like he was really badly burned and he had like -- he was like a rocker. He was wearing, like, rocker stuff. And he was burned. And he had like only a few hairs on his head because I guess it covered all the pores when he was burned.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you and he appear in the film, if you know.
Gavin Arvizo: Later I watched it, and then -- well, I watched my part, and then I don't think he was in there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But was he at Neverland the day you were filmed.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you meet him shortly after you arrived.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you and he walk around Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: How much time did you spend with him.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael introduced me to him and he was older than me, so I mean -- I was pretty young. I mean -- I don't know. We just didn't really have that much in common that much.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you ever personally threatened by anyone associated with Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: Let's take our morning break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: All right. You may proceed.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Arvizo, do you recall being interviewed by the Santa Barbara Sheriffs about drinking in the arcade.
The Court: They can't hear you in the back of the room.
The Bailiff: Do you still have your microphone on.
Mr. Mesereau: It's on.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Arvizo, do you recall discussing with the Santa Barbara Sheriffs your claim that you were drinking in the arcade with Michael Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall telling them the following: “We didn't drink a lot”.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you a transcript from that interview.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry, Counsel, what page was that.
Mr. Mesereau: 26.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Arvizo, have you had a chance to look at that page.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about what you told the Santa Barbara Sheriffs.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Mesereau: You told them, “We didn't drink a lot”, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. It says it on there.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall saying that.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you deny saying that.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know if I ever said that.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you agree that every time you were interviewed, your stories of drinking got worse and worse, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You initially told them you didn't drink a lot.
Gavin Arvizo: That's true.
Mr. Mesereau: Then you started telling them you drank a lot, and then you started telling them, “We drank every night”, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, “a lot” would be every night, so it would really --
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: “A lot” would be every night.
Mr. Mesereau: And you're saying after Miami that you basically were drinking every single evening at Neverland, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I told him that every single evening that Michael was there. In those transcripts, probably when -- I still -- I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Isn't it true that every time you were interviewed, your stories of drinking got bigger and bigger and bigger.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you saying your stories to the sheriffs were always consistent when it came to drinking.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm pretty sure they are. I mean, it doesn't really matter whether I said that or not. I'm saying the fact is that we drank every night that Michael was there.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss your drinking with your mother when she was at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: I think I called her up at night -- yeah, I called her up at night once.
Mr. Mesereau: You called her up.
Gavin Arvizo: Called her on Michael's phone.
Mr. Mesereau: You called her from Michael's room to say you were drinking.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: During the nights after Miami, when your mother was staying at Neverland, are you saying you never discussed your drinking with her.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I -- there was one -- I'm talking about the one night that I told Michael that -- I told Michael about the test that I had to take, and I called my mom up. That's what I was talking about.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So not only did you never have a discussion with your mother about where you were staying at night, but you never had a discussion with her about drinking alcohol; is that correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as argumentative, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: When you were at the Calabasas Inn, was there a phone in your room.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm pretty sure there was.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see anybody call the police.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: When you were shopping near the Calabasas Inn, to your knowledge, did anyone ever scream “help”.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever see your mother do it.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever see Star do it.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever see your sister do it.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't do it either, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: After you escaped from Neverland the first time, where did you go.
Gavin Arvizo: I think we went to my grandmother's house.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did anybody call the police and say, “We've been” --
Gavin Arvizo: No, because the thing was, like I --
Mr. Mesereau: Let me just finish my question.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: After you say you escaped from Neverland the first time, you went to your grandparents', correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you get there.
Gavin Arvizo: Jesus Salas drove us there.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall anyone ever calling the police and saying, “We've just been held against our will”.
Gavin Arvizo: No. Because like I -- my mom was --
Mr. Mesereau: Let me just ask you the questions. Okay. Nobody did, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: A few days later, you went back to Neverland, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe -- yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And then you say you escaped a second time, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you escaped the second time, how did you get out of Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Someone drove you somewhere, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, probably.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you go to your grandparents' again.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably.
Mr. Mesereau: Nobody called the police from your grandparents' when you say you escaped the second time, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And then you claim you returned, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you say you finally escaped for good, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you got back after finally escaping for good to your grandparents', nobody called the police, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when you say Mr. Jackson masturbated you, you've indicated that was sometime between Jesus Salas driving your family to your grandparents' and your final trip out of Neverland, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And that's at a time when you say your mother was being threatened, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: My mother said that she felt -- that she was being threatened, she felt. And Frank also told me once that -- because he was angry about my mom always wanting to leave and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: And --
Mr. Mesereau: But basically what you're saying is that the inappropriate touching by Michael Jackson happened after you'd escaped a few times, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: After you'd gone back a few times after your escapes, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And after you claim you knew your mother was being threatened by Frank, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Frank was angry at my mom once and he told me, “Hey, Gavin, you know I could have your mother killed”.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you believed him, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you believe Frank.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And you knew about the Brazil planning at this point, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Because you'd been to an agency, a federal office to get a visa, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember driving down to that federal office.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember going into the federal office.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And while you were in that federal office, nobody screamed for help, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And this was after you had the interview with the three social workers at Jay Jackson's home, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And during the interview with the social workers at Jay Jackson's home, nobody screamed for help; true.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was after you went to Hamid's home for the rebuttal video, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I think it was. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Gavin Arvizo: I think it was.
Mr. Mesereau: And what you're saying is that after your interview with the social workers, where you were asked questions about Michael Jackson, you're saying it was after that that inappropriate touching began, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: While Mr. Jackson is being investigated by Los Angeles County, true.
Gavin Arvizo: It -- it didn't happen until the last few weeks before I left. Or two weeks, somewhere around there.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me ask the question again.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: The three social workers were from Los Angeles County, true.
Gavin Arvizo: I think they were.
Mr. Mesereau: And they were asking you questions about whether Mr. Jackson had ever inappropriately touched you, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said “No”, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You knew they were investigating Mr. Jackson, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I thought they were just going to try to ask me, and that was it. I didn't know --
Mr. Mesereau: But what you're telling the jury is that after this investigation starts and after you and your family are questioned, Mr. Jackson supposedly starts touching you inappropriately, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you indicated to the jury last week that the first time Mr. Jackson inappropriately touched you, you weren't looking at him, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, it's like I would turn over to him sometimes. I glanced over at him a couple times.
Mr. Mesereau: You said you weren't really looking at him, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You said you weren't looking at him, but you could somehow feel him moving, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I could feel his leg like moving up against --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. After that, did you complain to your mother that you had been inappropriately touched.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I never discussed it with my mom. I never discussed it with my mom at all.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you complain to Star that you had been inappropriately touched.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you complain to your sister that you had been inappropriately touched.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you complain to Jay Jackson that you had been inappropriately touched.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you upset when you say you were inappropriately touched.
Gavin Arvizo: If I was upset.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. Were you upset.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. Because, I mean, something happened to where, like, it's not like I can go back and change it; you know what I mean. It's like something that I have, like, no control of.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, at this point, in your mind, your mother's been threatened and you've been inappropriately touched, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you remained at Neverland, true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you claim you continued to stay in his bedroom, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I think he left after the second time.
Mr. Mesereau: You think Michael Jackson left after the second time.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, a few days after the second time. That's why I'm pretty sure that it happened a few -- two weeks before, because I know I'm pretty sure that Michael left like a day after the second time.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, but you told the jury last week it was a couple of days before you left for good. Do you remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: No. You kept on saying that.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: No. You kept on saying that.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, let's look at this. You said that maybe a few days before you left Neverland for good you were inappropriately touched, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Judge, I'm going to object as asked and answered. He was asked this morning.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember saying last week, Mr. Arvizo, when I asked you when it happened, you said, “No, it was more toward the end, toward when we were already about to leave, after we had been drinking alcohol and all that stuff. It wasn't directly after the DCSF. It was more toward the end of the” -- a few days before you left Neverland, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Same objection, Your Honor. Asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You then changed it later on in that examination to say, “It was a week before we left”, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to counsel. He's just trying to read this in after the objection.
The Court: Sustained. Counsel, you're -- be quiet. You're arguing your case. Stop it. Start asking questions.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know when you first saw Attorney Larry Feldman.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When was that.
Gavin Arvizo: It was after all the stuff was done.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you discussed your meeting with Larry Feldman with any prosecutor.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: At any time.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I don't think I ever talked to anyone.
Mr. Mesereau: So you've never talked to any prosecutor about your meeting with Attorney Feldman. Is that what you're saying.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever discuss your meeting with Attorney Larry Feldman with any sheriff.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know for sure.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You eventually spoke to a psychologist named Stanley Katz, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know about when that was.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You told Stanley Katz that chemotherapy had messed up your head. Do you remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, it -- for a while it was hard for me to do schoolwork in school because of the chemotherapy.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told Stanley Katz that, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell him you had memory problems.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, for a while I had memory problems.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was from chemotherapy, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you taking any medications at the time you returned to Neverland from Miami.
Gavin Arvizo: I had -- I have to take, even now, the 500 milligrams of Amoxicillin, and five milligrams of Lycinopril for my kidney and because I don't have a spleen.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling Psychologist Stanley Katz you thought a crazy fan of Michael Jackson will kill you.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You never told that to the sheriffs, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm pretty sure I discussed it with them.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, it never appears in your interviews, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, I guess it didn't. But, I mean, it doesn't mean I didn't tell them that.
Mr. Mesereau: The only time that you used the word “kill” was when you told the sheriffs that Frank had threatened to kill your mom, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh. In an interview.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you start thinking that a crazy fan of Michael Jackson will kill you.
Gavin Arvizo: When Frank kept on telling us that people -- there was death threats on us.
Mr. Mesereau: What were the death threats.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. Frank just told us that.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, when you discussed that with Stanley Katz, you didn't tell him that came from Frank. You told him you personally were frightened, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. Be -- but I mean --
Mr. Mesereau: Is that right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Frank was the one that really made me realize that that could happen.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, did you ever discuss with Michael Jackson your fear that a fan might hurt you.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss with Michael Jackson what Frank was telling you that you thought was threatening.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So based on your experiences, Michael Jackson knew nothing about what Frank was saying to you, correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Object. It calls for speculation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: When you were at the Calabasas Inn, you never spoke to Michael Jackson, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: The night before you did the rebuttal video, you never spoke to Michael Jackson, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I might have. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: The day you did the rebuttal video, you never spoke to Michael Jackson, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No. Michael was telling me that I'm going to do a rebuttal for him.
The Reporter: What was the last part.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael was telling me before we went that we were going to do the rebuttal for him.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when was that.
Gavin Arvizo: Maybe right before the rebuttal.
Mr. Mesereau: When you spoke on that rebuttal video, were you telling the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you lying.
Gavin Arvizo: Dieter had us pretty much -- yeah, Dieter had us lie.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you lying throughout that rebuttal video.
Gavin Arvizo: There was probably a few things that were true, but, I mean, a lot of it was what Dieter told us to say.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that your mother was lying.
Gavin Arvizo: She was saying what Dieter told her to say.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding she was lying.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, she was lying, because Dieter told her to say it.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that Star was lying in that rebuttal video.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that your sister lied on that rebuttal video.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were lying about Mr. Jackson helping you with cancer; is that correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No, because Michael did help me a little bit, but, I mean, he -- for me, what I felt as a little kid, I mean, besides the fact of all this money and who paid for this and who paid for that, who -- I felt who really helped me was my other friends. Because Michael, at the time when he was calling me and talking to me and stuff, I felt like he was my best friend. But, I mean, when he -- when I would call his phone numbers and a little operating lady would say, “This phone is no longer in service”. I mean, I never called Chris and his phone was never in service. I never called George and his phone wasn't in service.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall being caught at Neverland with girlie magazines when you were not around Michael Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you saying that never happened.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, 403 hearing.
The Court: Sustained. I'll -- that's sort of a -- you know what he's talking about on the 403 hearing, right.
Mr. Mesereau: I thought I was able to get into these areas on cross.
The Court: Yes. That's why I'm looking at you, because I don't want to discuss it. I just want to make sure we understand each other.
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah, I won't go further than that on this one. There's another area, too, I think the Court gave me permission.
The Court: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Arvizo, you were caught masturbating at Neverland when Michael Jackson wasn't even around, weren't you.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You were caught masturbating in a guest quarters, weren't you.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: No one ever saw you do that.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: No one ever talked to you about that.
Gavin Arvizo: No one ever talked to me about it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Long after you did the rebuttal video, you had written numerous letters and cards to Michael Jackson thanking him for what he did for your cancer, true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Long before you did the rebuttal video, you had written numerous cards and letters to Michael Jackson referring to him as your father, true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Because I missed him. I mean, I wanted to know what happened, why he wasn't calling anymore. And that's the only real way I had connection with him was through mail, because I had Evvy's -- I knew where Evvy was, so I could send it to her.
Mr. Mesereau: And long before you did the rebuttal video, you sent cards and letters to Michael Jackson referring to yourself as his son, true.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object. This has all been asked and answered.
Mr. Mesereau: I don't think it has.
The Court: Well, there wasn't a time frame. You have covered the cards and letters. Is there a specific time frame you're concerned about.
Mr. Mesereau: Any time before the rebuttal video, Your Honor.
The Court: I think you've covered that. The objection is sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: We're going to go through the rebuttal video. And I'm just going to ask you some questions about what you said and how you said it. Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Your Honor, at this time we'd like to play the rebuttal video.
The Court: What is that. “Input 4”.
Mr. Sanger: Yes. Your Honor, for the record, it's Exhibit 340.
The Court: Exhibit 340. Ready. I'd like one of those whistles just before I make a ruling.
Mr. Sanger: Tell me to queue it up, Your Honor. Just for the record, I turned the sound off on this so we wouldn't.... (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you heard what your mother just said, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And is it your belief your mother is lying.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, right there, not really, because I had a pretty good relationship with him, you know, right at the beginning.
Mr. Mesereau: So you don't think your mother is lying when she makes that statement, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, not really, because, I mean, he was like really close to me in the beginning. I mean, I guess, I thought I was close to him; you know what I mean.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Arvizo, when you made those statements, were you lying.
Gavin Arvizo: Statements about the first night.
Mr. Mesereau: What you just said, yes.
Gavin Arvizo: The sleeping arrangements.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I wasn't lying about that.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you told any lies so far in this rebuttal tape.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't -- I remember I said something that -- oh, yeah, because Michael told me in the office, in his office, to ask my parents if I could sleep in his room. So it wasn't -- he told me to ask in front of my parents.
Mr. Mesereau: So are you saying this is a lie you just told.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm just saying that -- about how I asked my parents.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: That's a lie.
Mr. Mesereau: That's a lie.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Is that the first lie you've told in this rebuttal tape, as far as you can see.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Arvizo, you heard what you just said. Is that a lie.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Was everything you said there truthful.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Arvizo, you've heard what your mother just said. Was it your belief that she was lying.
Gavin Arvizo: There's a part in there, like, that there was no way to cure me. Dieter told us to say that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So that was not true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, because they did do radiation and chemotherapy.
Mr. Mesereau: The truth was, you had needed radiation and chemo to cure you, and what your mother said was a lie, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: About there was no way to cure me, that Michael was the only person that could cure me. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Arvizo, is what you said there the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you told any lies in this particular segment.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Gavin, is your mother telling the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, because I remember -- I think Michael did, like, a blood drive or something. Yeah, a lot of my other friends were also helping, thank God, because, I mean, it's such a rare blood that I needed.
Mr. Mesereau: But is your mother telling the truth in the statements she makes.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. About Michael, yes. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Gavin, is your sister telling the truth when she makes that statement.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really, because she was saying that -- well, she was saying that people were always turning us away. And that's not true, because, I mean, Jamie Masada was helping us, Louise Palanker was helping us, George Lopez was helping us. I'm pretty sure -- I'm not too sure, but I'm pretty sure Dieter told her to say that also, that no one else was helping us but Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: And Chris Tucker was helping you, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, Chris Tucker was helping us, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And this is the rebuttal video that you did before the meeting with the three social workers, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. I'm pretty sure I did it before the social workers.
Mr. Mesereau: You went the next morning to interview with the social workers, didn't you.
Gavin Arvizo: I think I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Let me ask you a question: You said repeatedly in this trial that Mr. Jackson did not inappropriately touch you until after this video was done, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And repeatedly in this video, you make statements about what a wonderful person Mr. Jackson is, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling Mr. Sneddon and the sheriffs on one occasion that you were molested before the video was done.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you a transcript of that interview.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Please.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that transcript.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection that Mr. Sneddon was interviewing you about when these acts of molestation allegedly occurred.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. But the thing was, I don't -- even to this day, I don't remember exactly when everything happened exactly, so I mean --
Mr. Mesereau: Well, do you remember being asked, “The acts of molestation, had they already begun by the time you did this video, do you know”. And you said, “I think so”. And then Mr. Sneddon said to you, “So, in your mind, one of the things that you're thinking is, they're doing this video that they want you guys to do so that if you ever told them the truth about being molested, nobody would believe you”, and you say, “Yeah”, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I --
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember saying that to Mr. Sneddon.
Gavin Arvizo: That's more of my opinion - you know what I mean. - right there. That last statement you just said on that transcript, it's more of my opinion than a state of fact.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, Mr. Sneddon asked you last week when this inappropriate touching supposedly occurred, and you said it was after the rebuttal video was made, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But in an interview with Mr. Sneddon before this trial ever began, you told him differently, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: That's what it says right there. But it happened after.
Mr. Mesereau: Did someone ever say to you, “You have to say it happened after, because on the rebuttal video you deny he's ever done anything wrong”.
Gavin Arvizo: No. No one's ever told me that.
Mr. Mesereau: Then why does your story change.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. It happened after. I mean --
Mr. Mesereau: Well, at some point did you go to Mr. Sneddon and say, “I'm changing my story about when this inappropriate touching happened”.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point did you go to the sheriffs and say, “I'm changing my story about when this inappropriate touching happened”.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You just suddenly got on the stand and changed it.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as argumentative, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever had any discussion at any time with Mr. Sneddon where you used words to the effect, “I'm changing my story about the time this molestation happened”.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When Mr. Sneddon asked you questions last week about when this molestation supposedly occurred, was that the first time you said to Mr. Sneddon it happened after the rebuttal video.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't think so.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think that was the first time I ever told him that it happened after the rebuttal video.
Mr. Mesereau: So are you saying that at different times you gave Mr. Sneddon different accounts of when the molestation supposedly happened.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to that question. Assumes facts not in evidence, and it's argumentative and speculative.
The Court: Overruled. Do you want the question read back.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
The Court Reporter: So are you saying that at different times you gave Mr. Sneddon different accounts of when the molestation supposedly happened.
Gavin Arvizo: Sometimes I would talk to Mr. Sneddon without having like an interview -- or, like, have a recorder or something. And I would talk -- like, Mr. Sneddon was being really nice to me. Like he was helping me, and he was making me feel better about what happened and stuff. So he's been really nice to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling the Santa Barbara Grand Jury that after the Miami trip, your brother stayed in Michael's room with you every night until the last few days.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, he stood in my room -- he stood in the room with me and Michael pretty much every day. Some days he wouldn't stay there.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling the grand jury that until the last few days, your brother Star stayed with you in Michael's room all the time.
Gavin Arvizo: He stood with us -- well, he -- the last -- the last week or two, or a few days, or something like that, he didn't. Well, because my brother wasn't there when it happened, so I'm pretty sure it wasn't -- he stopped staying there the last few weeks.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling the Santa Barbara Grand Jury: “Q. Was your brother staying in the room with you during that time. “A. Well, the last few times he didn't, but he was, like, when Michael was there -- when Michael was there -- “Q. Uh-huh. “A. -- he stood with me for all the time when Michael was there. But, like, toward the end, toward the last few days, he wasn't staying with me no more”. Do you remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've also told this jury that the two times you claim Michael Jackson inappropriately touched you Star wasn't there, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: We can continue.
Mr. Sanger: Are you ready. Your Honor, we need the.... (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Do you think your sister is lying when she made those statements.
Gavin Arvizo: No. Because, I mean, people on the news media were -- might have been saying something, probably. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: So you think she's telling the truth when she says what she just said.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably. I mean, I looked at her, and she's crying and stuff, so....
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Go ahead. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Is what your mother just said correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No. Because we could have at any time stood at my grandmother's house. I mean, it's not like --
Mr. Mesereau: In your opinion, was your mother lying when she made that statement.
Gavin Arvizo: I remember hearing Dieter talk to her, so I'm pretty sure Dieter told her to say that.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, that --
Gavin Arvizo: We can stay at my grandmother's house. We could stay at one of our family members' house; you know what I mean. It's not like we were spit on and all this other stuff; you know what I mean.
Mr. Mesereau: My question to you is, did your mother just lie, in your opinion.
Gavin Arvizo: She's saying what Dieter told her to say.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she lie. Yes or no.
Gavin Arvizo: She -- well, only because --
Mr. Sneddon: Argumentative, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Go ahead. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: You just heard your sister's statement; is that true.
Gavin Arvizo: A little bit of it is true.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she lie in part of that.
Gavin Arvizo: I mean, because we would talk about girls at times, and -- like all my friends that were females and stuff like that. But I mean --
Mr. Mesereau: You would talk with Michael Jackson about your female friends.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. He would talk to me about girls and how to, like, handle them; you know what I mean. Like how to talk to a girl or something like that.
Mr. Mesereau: So that statement's true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And anything else you just heard that's not true.
Gavin Arvizo: No, not really. No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Was the statement you just made true.
Gavin Arvizo: No. Because I didn't really have a phone number to call him.
Mr. Mesereau: So were you lying.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was your mother lying also.
Gavin Arvizo: No, not really.
Mr. Mesereau: Was she telling the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: Pretty much, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: After the Miami trip, were you able to call Michael Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael would -- I was at Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you able to call him after the Miami trip.
Gavin Arvizo: I would talk to him when he was at Neverland. I mean, I didn't really call him.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever call him at Neverland on any phone.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. I don't think I did.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't remember.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, there were phones you could use to try to call Michael Jackson when you were at Neverland, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Where were the phones.
Gavin Arvizo: All over the house and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: You tried to call him often, didn't you.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, why would I try to call him if I could just go and talk to him at Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, it's a large ranch, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You used to spend time in the theater, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever try and call Michael Jackson from the phone in the theater.
Gavin Arvizo: No. Because I would just go over in my little cart to see Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever try to call Michael Jackson from the guest quarters.
Gavin Arvizo: No, because I had the code to his room and I would go up there when he -- when he was there.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever try calling him from the amusement area.
Gavin Arvizo: No. There's not really any phones out there.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever try calling him from the zoo area.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: When you made this rebuttal video, you could get in contact with him almost any time, couldn't you.
Gavin Arvizo: I could drive over to where he was in my cart at Neverland, but never had a phone number if he left or something.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Is what your brother Star just said true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, Michael let us call him --
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, Michael let us call him “Daddy Michael”.
Mr. Mesereau: So what he said was correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Was the statement you just made the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Is what your mother just said the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: I guess. I mean, I don't know if Michael was trying to teach us that or --
A Voice From The Audience: We can't hear.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know if Michael was trying to teach us that or something.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, did your mother tell the truth, in your opinion.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell the truth, in your opinion.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, we'd go on rides and watch movies.
Mr. Mesereau: How about the other things you said, are they true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Is what your mother just said the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: I kind of stopped paying attention for a while.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me. Huh.
Gavin Arvizo: I started looking at the roof and stuff. I wasn't really paying attention.
Mr. Mesereau: Can we replay that, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, Judge, it would call for speculation on his part anyhow.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm asking for his opinion.
The Court: I guess you'll have to.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: Can you do it without --
Mr. Mesereau: This may take a while, Your Honor. I think we'll just go forward, Your Honor.
The Court: Do you want to just go forward. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: In your opinion, is your mother telling the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, we felt as if he was closest to us as a father and family. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Were you telling the truth when you made that statement.
Gavin Arvizo: What I just said right now.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I didn't pray to meet Michael Jackson when I was little.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you pray to meet Michael Jackson at any time.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You made a statement about Michael Jackson's charitable acts. Did you hear that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. I knew he donated to charities. I knew about that.
Mr. Mesereau: Was the statement you made true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You just heard your mother make some comments.
Gavin Arvizo: Um --
Mr. Mesereau: In your opinion, were they true comments.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't really remember what she just said. I'm sorry. I just --
Mr. Mesereau: Well, your mother praises Michael Jackson throughout this video, true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Is she telling the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: Some parts she is; some parts she isn't. Depends on what she's praising him about.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you and your mother discuss that you were going to lie before you did this video.
Gavin Arvizo: No. Dieter discussed it with us.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss that you were going to tell lies with your mother at any time before this video.
Gavin Arvizo: No. Dieter discussed it with us.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss with your brother or sister at any time that you were going to lie in this video.
Gavin Arvizo: No. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: In your opinion, did Michael ever claim you and your brother and sister as his kids.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, he would call me “son” if -- depends what she was trying to say, but -- I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: In your opinion, did Michael Jackson ever claim that you, your brother and sister were his kids.
Gavin Arvizo: What do you mean by “claim”. Like claim on T.V., or claim on his taxes, or --
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know what I'm asking you.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, he said -- as I said, he called us -- he said that, like, if he would call me “son” sometimes - you know what I mean. - if that's what she's trying to say.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever think you were part of Michael Jackson's family.
Gavin Arvizo: I felt as if I was his family.
Mr. Mesereau: In your opinion, did your mother think she was part of Michael Jackson's family at one point.
Gavin Arvizo: What did my mom believe.
Mr. Mesereau: No, in your opinion, did your mother think she was part of Michael Jackson's family at one point.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, I don't know. That's what she believes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether she felt that way or not.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I don't know whether she --
Mr. Mesereau: In your opinion, did either your brother or your sister ever think they were part of Michael Jackson's family.
Gavin Arvizo: I know my brother did, because my brother was sad by my biological father leaving, as I was. And he felt that, as I did, about Michael being close to us as if he was a father because we didn't have one.
Mr. Mesereau: You were looking for a family, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I wasn't really, like, going out and looking; you know what I mean. I was just -- came across as Michael being the only older male that was close to me in my life; you know what I mean.
Mr. Mesereau: And you wanted to be part of the Jackson family, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really Jackson family. But just Michael was there and he was like a father figure to me; you know what I mean.
Mr. Mesereau: You think of Paris and Prince as your brother and sister.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, we would talk about it and stuff. I would always play with them, and I would teach them stuff, and we would go look at stuff together and stuff like that.
Mr. Mesereau: And in your opinion, did Star and your sister think of Paris and Prince as their brother and sister.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: But you did, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Is what you just said the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: What I had said.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Is what your mom just said the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: Which -- I can't -- she said what she said.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you think of Michael Jackson, when you made this video, as honest.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really, because he said that I can call him at any time, and I didn't really have the phone numbers before that.
Mr. Mesereau: So because of that, you thought he was dishonest.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you think of Michael Jackson as loving when you made this video.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: In your opinion, is what your mother just said the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. He seemed very loving and we trusted him a lot.
Mr. Mesereau: So in your opinion, your mother meant what she just said.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Is what you just said the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, Michael invited me to Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: That's not what I asked you. Is what you just said the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Well -- well, it would be the truth, because in the beginning of my cancer he would invite me to Neverland after, to come after my chemotherapy round.
Mr. Mesereau: When you made these statements, was Michael the kind of person you were describing, as far as you were concerned.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, he was very nice to me and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: And he was nice to your family.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. It was what was in my eyes.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me.
Gavin Arvizo: What I saw, in my eyes. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Was what you have just said the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Pac Man; Michael did tell me to say that.
Mr. Mesereau: What about everything else you said.
Gavin Arvizo: About me going to chemotherapy.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I wouldn't think about it every time I went to a chemotherapy round.
Mr. Mesereau: So were you lying at that point.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, Dieter actually told me to say that, because he knew about the Pac Man.
Mr. Mesereau: When I say whether you lied, I'm not asking what Dieter said. I'm just asking what you, Gavin Arvizo, said, all right. Did you just lie on that tape.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object. He doesn't even let him answer the question.
The Court: Yes, but it's not necessary to give a pre-statement to your question.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: Go ahead and rephrase it.
Mr. Mesereau: When you just made the statement that everybody heard in this courtroom, did you lie.
Gavin Arvizo: About the Pac Man thing, me going in every single time in chemotherapy.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 1, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Is what your mother just said about you wanting to be in movies true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Michael was saying that he was going do some movie, or something, about some orphanage.
Mr. Mesereau: What about you wanting to be in movies.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, yes, I wanted to be an actor for a while. But now I want to -- hopefully I can -- I want -- well, I don't really want to say, but I want to do something else.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me ask you what you just said. Did you say you want to be in movies.
Gavin Arvizo: I wanted to. But now that I'm in high school and I'm seeing all the other careers, I want to do -- I want to be in law enforcement, or whatever.
Mr. Mesereau: At the time you were going to Neverland, did you want to be in movies.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell Michael Jackson you wanted to be in movies.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did your brother Star say he wanted to be in movies.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm pretty sure he wanted to.
Mr. Mesereau: Is there anything you just heard your mother say that you think is not true.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I don't think -- I think everything she said was true.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Putting in Disk 2, Your Honor. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Is everything you just said correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't -- I don't think I said anything right there.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you said -- you've seen the first disk of this rebuttal video, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many lies do you think you told.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, I think maybe about four.
Mr. Mesereau: Four lies.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: How many lies do you think your mother told.
Gavin Arvizo: Four or five. I'm not -- I mean --
Mr. Mesereau: Four or five lies.
Gavin Arvizo: I wasn't counting or anything.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm just asking what your opinion is. How many lies do you think your sister told.
Gavin Arvizo: One or two.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many lies do you think Star told.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, he wasn't really talking, so I don't think he really said anything. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you heard what your mother just said, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You saw the way she expressed herself, correct. Do you think she's just doing what Dieter wants.
Gavin Arvizo: No, not right there.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you think she's doing what she wants.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: You just said you didn't like Martin Bashir, was that true.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh. Yeah, because when it came out on the CNN and stuff, then I saw it, I saw parts of it. I mean, what part I know Bashir was saying, that at the time I didn't feel was true.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't like him personally.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really. I mean --
Mr. Mesereau: When did you decide you didn't like Martin Bashir.
Gavin Arvizo: After I found out that he -- that it was an actual documentary and what he was saying about Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Now, your mother mentions gang signs. Do you know what she's talking about.
Gavin Arvizo: She was probably joking about something.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know what she was joking about.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Mesereau: She talks about friends on the west side. Do you know what that's all about.
Gavin Arvizo: It was just a joke, about like -- because you know how gangs say “east side” or “west side” or something.
Mr. Mesereau: But you're really not sure what she was talking about, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Are you trying to say my mom's in a gang or something.
Mr. Mesereau: No, I'm asking you a question. Do you know what she was referring to.
Gavin Arvizo: She was making a joke.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what was the joke about, in your opinion.
Gavin Arvizo: About gangs. Pretty much making fun of gangs.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And were you joining with her in making fun of gangs.
Gavin Arvizo: I was laughing, I guess, right there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you do a gang sign.
Gavin Arvizo: No. She probably -- I was probably pointing or something, and then -- I don't know. I'm not a part of a gang. I'm not a part of a crew or something.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm asking you if you made a gang sign in this video.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know what your mother was referring to.
Gavin Arvizo: No. She was probably just joking about something that they were talking about off camera.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you don't know for sure, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Is your mother telling the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: Dieter told her to talk about the hands thing.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm asking if your mother is telling the truth. I'm not asking about Dieter.
Gavin Arvizo: She talked about her opinions, so I don't know if that's her -- if she was really telling the truth or not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did someone tell you whenever I ask a question like this, to refer to Dieter.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I'm referring to Dieter because Dieter's the one that told us to say all these things.
Mr. Mesereau: Did your mother just tell the truth, in your opinion.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, I don't know, because that's her opinion.
Mr. Mesereau: In your opinion, Gavin Arvizo, did your mother just tell the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: I do not know, because that's -- you can call my mother and ask her that, because I don't know.
The Court: All right. Let's take our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Mesereau: With your permission, Your Honor, we'll just continue the tape.
The Court: All right. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Gavin, is your mother, in your opinion, telling the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: I think so, I guess.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe so, I guess.
Mr. Mesereau: I couldn't hear what you said.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe so, I guess.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you heard her say anything at this point that's not true.
Gavin Arvizo: I mean, Michael was nice to me and stuff, and I felt as if he was like a father to me, so --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: At some point you and your mother and your brother and your sister concluded that Michael Jackson didn't want you all to be part of his family, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were upset about that, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: We concluded because --
Mr. Mesereau: Just answer my question, if you would, please. Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point you, your mother, your sister and your brother realized that you were not going to spend the rest of your lives as part of Michael Jackson's family, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Well --
Mr. Mesereau: Is that true or not.
Gavin Arvizo: It's like we didn't really conclude all together, “Hey, everybody”. I mean, I guess we all realized on our own that, like -- that he isn't as nice of a man as we thought he was.
Mr. Mesereau: Because he wasn't going to let you be part of the Michael Jackson family, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: We never wanted to be part of the Michael Jackson family. The only part of it was, he was just like a father to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: That's the only part in connection to a family there would be. We weren't expecting a -- to live with him forever. We were expecting -- well, we just thought of him -- I thought of him as a father figure.
Mr. Mesereau: You expected Michael Jackson to support you, your mother, your brother and your sister indefinitely, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You wanted to be part of his family, and when you found out you weren't going to be, you got angry, true.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You found out --
Gavin Arvizo: I -- I didn't -- I never thought we were going to be, “Okay, he's going to be our dad. We're going to live in the house together”, and blah, blah, blah. No. He -- I saw him as like someone who could guide me as a father would; someone who can talk to me and stuff like that. I mean, it would be stupid if you wanted to live with a man like that for the rest of your life. He's not really my father.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you agree that your mother got very angry in front of you when she realized Michael Jackson was fading out of your lives.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you agree that you got very angry when, at some point, you realized Michael Jackson was fading out of your family's life, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't really get angry. I mean, it's -- I mean, I didn't think he was going to live with us forever. I just -- like, you know the Big Brother program thing for, like, kids that don't have dads. That's kind of what I thought of Michael as.
Mr. Mesereau: You expected Michael Jackson to keep helping you, your mother, your brother and your sister, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't expect it from him, no.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's why you got very angry when you realized certain people wanted you to leave the country, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael told me that he was going to come over later after we were there, so -- after we even got there.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you looking forward to meeting Michael in Brazil.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. I guess.
Mr. Mesereau: And at some time did you realize that Michael wasn't going to Brazil.
Gavin Arvizo: No, to my understanding was that he was always going to come a week later after we got there.
Mr. Mesereau: But at some point you realized even you weren't going to Brazil, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I thought the whole time they were trying to get us to go to Brazil.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you wanted to go to your grandparents', you all got into a car and Vinnie drove you to your grandparents', right.
Gavin Arvizo: After -- yeah. Vinnie drove us there, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And at that point you realized you're never going to be in Michael Jackson's family, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Well -- I never wanted to be in his family. I was never looking for that.
Mr. Mesereau: Let's keep going. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Now, your brother Star had just said that going to Neverland Ranch was something you always looked forward to, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And at one point you realized you probably weren't going to be returning to Neverland Ranch, right.
Gavin Arvizo: After it was all over, I didn't want to go back.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point you realized you weren't going to be in Michael Jackson's family, you weren't going to Neverland Ranch, and it wasn't until then that you ever came up with these allegations of molestation, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't want to go back after I came back.
Mr. Mesereau: Please answer my question. It wasn't until you realized that you and your mother and your brother and your sister were not going to be part of Michael Jackson's family that you ever told anybody about any molestation, right.
Gavin Arvizo: It wasn't as if we got together and realized it. It wasn't -- so your question isn't really working.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, could I request that the witness be instructed to answer the question.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't really understand the question.
The Court: All right. Go ahead. Rephrase your question.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. It wasn't until you realized you were not going to be part of Michael Jackson's family, you were not going to meet Michael Jackson in Brazil, you were not going to be going to Neverland, that you ever came up with these allegations of molestation, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't come and talk to the -- to the -- my mom always wanted to leave. She was the one that was able to realize and get us out of there. I liked being there.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me. Your Honor, can I ask the witness be instructed to just answer the question.
The Court: No.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't understand --
The Court: Just a minute. No. Your question is compound and it's argumentative. Break your question down.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I will, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Until you realized you were not going to be part of Michael Jackson's family, you never made any allegation of child molestation, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't want to be part of his family. I just saw him as a father figure.
Mr. Mesereau: Until you realized Michael Jackson was not going to meet you in Brazil, you never made any allegation of child molestation, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't even really want to go to Brazil.
Mr. Mesereau: Until you left Neverland for the last time, you never made any allegation of child molestation, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't tell anyone until I left for the last time, correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And never called the police until after you'd seen two lawyers, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as argumentative, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, it wasn't until I saw two lawyers until I told the police what really happened.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. We can keep going. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Did you, your mother, your brother, your sister actually have to share cereal when you were too poor to get other food.
Gavin Arvizo: I know we had problems with trying to get food and stuff, but I don't know if we shared a box of cereal.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: And -- (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: At this point in time, did you agree with what your mother just said. Did you think Michael was there for you.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, I believe -- I thought that Michael was there for us. But he -- he helped us. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you and your family did pray with Michael, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. I believe we asked him if we can pray at the dinner tables.
Mr. Mesereau: You also one time were in the theater; you, your mother, your brother and your sister and Michael. Remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: We were in the theater a lot together.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember your mother wanted everyone to hold hands and pray with Daddy Michael.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't remember that at all.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you typically pray at the dinner table with Michael.
Gavin Arvizo: We would ask him sometimes.
Mr. Mesereau: You asked him and he said, “Okay”.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what prayers did you say.
Gavin Arvizo: “Thank God for the food we were going to eat”, and stuff like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: In your opinion, is your mother telling the truth about that statement.
Gavin Arvizo: About the relationship between me and Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: About what you just heard.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, I was pretty close to Michael, as I've said many times.
Mr. Mesereau: So do you have any -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. What your mother just says is true, as far as you're concerned.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. Up to that point, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you saying “yes”.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: When these statements were made, you did not want your relationship with Mr. Jackson to end, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I still wanted to be able to call him and stuff like that.
Mr. Mesereau: And among all the celebrities that you had met, no celebrity had included you in their family the way Michael Jackson had, right.
Gavin Arvizo: He didn't really include me in his family. I just -- as I said before, I looked to him as a father figure, and he looked at me as a son, because he was the only father figure I had.
Mr. Mesereau: And your letters to him reflected that, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Your calls to him reflected that, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When you went to the ranch, you felt you were part of a family, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: As I just told you, I felt as if he was my guider, my -- a teacher to me in life. A father figure to me.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you left Neverland for the last time, you felt your father had rejected you, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really, because I found a new father. I found my now father.
Mr. Mesereau: When you left Neverland, did you feel that the father figure Michael Jackson had rejected you; yes or no.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't need him. I didn't want him.
Mr. Mesereau: When you left Neverland for the last time, did you feel that the father figure Michael Jackson had rejected you; yes or no.
Gavin Arvizo: As I said, I didn't feel that. I didn't feel that I was rejected, because I had my now, which I consider my real father.
Mr. Mesereau: You knew Jay Jackson long before these statements were made, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You knew Jay Jackson long before you were referring to Michael Jackson as a father figure, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Not long before, but, I mean, he was my mom's boyfriend. I didn't know him. I wasn't close to him. But when I came back, I saw his concern. I saw the way he felt about my family and how he would hug me, and actually feel like he's a man; you know what I mean. And he's my father.
Mr. Mesereau: At the time you and your mother and your brother and your sister made the statements on this video, your mother had been in a relationship with Jay Jackson for many months, true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: At the time your mother makes these statements that Michael Jackson is a father figure, she's in a relationship with Jay Jackson, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Jay Jackson wasn't present when this video was done, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some point did you learn that the actual rebuttal show went on television.
Gavin Arvizo: This.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: I never knew it went on television.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever know any rebuttal show was ever made to rebut what was said in Bashir.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear anything about that.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, yes. Um, I remember something happened where -- Michael had me sign some papers or something like that. I think something came on.
Mr. Mesereau: And at some point you learned there was a Maury Povich show that was done as a rebuttal to the Bashir documentary, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. I remember them coming and filming, but --
Mr. Mesereau: And you learned at some point that none of this footage in which you and your family are interviewed ever appeared on that Maury Povich television show, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't watch it.
Mr. Mesereau: As you sit here today, do you know whether or not any of this footage was ever used in the Maury Povich rebuttal show.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You've never discussed that with anybody.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. At this particular point in time, you thought Michael Jackson was going to give your family a home in the Hollywood Hills, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever hear anybody discuss that.
Gavin Arvizo: No. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: While your mother was dating Jay Jackson, you considered Michael Jackson a father figure, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Well, if -- she was dating her -- him right now, so in this time period I did see Michael as a father figure.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when did you first meet Jay Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. I don't remember the first time. But -- I mean, I didn't get close to him until I came back from Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: It was many months before this, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: In fact, after this rebuttal was filmed, you went to Jay Jackson's apartment for the interview with the three social workers, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you living at his apartment at that point.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How long had you been living at Jay Jackson's apartment at that point.
Gavin Arvizo: A few months. But he was just my mom's boyfriend. He wasn't my stepfather yet.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: He was just a guy. He was not my stepfather yet.
Mr. Mesereau: So you had lived at Jay Jackson's apartment for a couple of months before this rebuttal video was filmed, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe so, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But during those months you considered Michael Jackson to be your father figure, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No, in those months I had no father figure. That's why when I came to Neverland and Michael was like this, I considered Michael as my father figure.
Mr. Mesereau: Let's keep going. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss with Jay Jackson what your mother was going to say in this video.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I don't even know -- I didn't even know that Jay Jackson even knew about this.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall any discussion at any time with Jay Jackson about you and your family being videotaped.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I do not.
Mr. Mesereau: You recall going to Jay Jackson's apartment after this was filmed, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss with Jay Jackson this videotape after it was filmed.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't think I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever discussed with Jay Jackson at any time the fact that you made this videotape.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever heard your mother discuss it with Jay Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, your mother has a curl coming down her face. Do you see that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she normally wear her hair that way.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, when she had her hair permed, she always wore it like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Always like that.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Was she ever trying to look like Janet Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Was what your mother just said true.
Gavin Arvizo: He's a nice man. He's -- he's approached and he's kind of friendly.
Mr. Mesereau: Was what your mother just said true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you believe she was telling the truth when she talked about Michael Jackson's honesty.
Gavin Arvizo: The way I felt about it was kind of awkward, but, I mean, he was pretty honest. But, I mean, the things that he did was kind of dishonest; you know what I mean.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me ask you what you're talking about. Did you think when your mother said Michael Jackson was honest and told the truth, that she was being truthful.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. He's a nice man.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you think your mother was being truthful when she made that statement we just heard.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. You can ask her.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you think at the time.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't remember what I thought at the time.
Mr. Mesereau: What do you think now. Do you think she was being honest.
Gavin Arvizo: As I just said, yes, Michael was a nice man. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you've told the jury a number of times that Dieter was telling you what to say on this, is that correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Dieter told us a lot of things to say.
Mr. Mesereau: Dieter told you general things to say.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. He told us what to say pretty much, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And I believe when Prosecutor Sneddon was asking you questions, he talked about some type of a sheet of questions. Do you remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Did somebody show you a sheet with some questions on it before you did this interview.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, actually, and kind of waving it in front of the camera right here.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many sheets are you talking about.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not sure how many sheets it was.
Mr. Mesereau: It was just a certain number of questions they told you they were going to ask you, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. And Dieter went over it with us and told us the answer, what to say.
Mr. Mesereau: At the time when Dieter went over those questions with you, did you think Michael Jackson had abandoned you as a father figure.
Gavin Arvizo: No. Not then.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Gavin, you and your mother are living with Major Jay Jackson when she makes this statement about Michael Jackson being a parent, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you think of Michael Jackson as a third parent.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I saw him, as I've said many times today, as a guider, as a father figure. Not my actual father, as I consider Major Jay Jackson today, as he is my stepfather.
Mr. Mesereau: He has since married your mother, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, if you know, were -- were Major Jay Jackson and your mother engaged when this video was made.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you expect this video to be on national television at some point when you made it.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't even think about it.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss that with your mom.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember any discussion involving your mother before this was filmed about whether or not she should sign any documents.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Don't recall that at all.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when you used to visit Neverland and Michael Jackson was present, you used to see his children, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When you flew to Miami and saw Michael Jackson, he was with his children, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. I'm sure his children were there.
Mr. Mesereau: When you came back from Miami and started visiting Neverland, when Michael Jackson was there, his children were always there, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, no. Because there was one time that he wasn't at Neverland and he flew somewhere on a commercial plane or something and he came back.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me rephrase the question. When you were at Neverland and Michael was there, you saw his children, true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: When your mother made that statement, in your opinion, was she telling the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, because sometimes we'd accidentally crash a cart or something, and -- otherwise, probably other people would yell at us or something. And Michael would just say, “It's okay. They can fix it”.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever get in any trouble at Neverland other than crashing carts.
Gavin Arvizo: Not that I can think of. I think that's the only real bad thing that we did. I mean, accidentally crashing a cart, that's about it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 340, Disk 2, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: I believe that's the end, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: You remember returning from Miami to Neverland, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember the next day seeing Ed Bradley from 60 Minutes at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember seeing entertainment company executives at Neverland the next day.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you there the next day.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, but I was probably out playing on the rides or something.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall the day that Jesus Salas drove your family away from Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall your mother getting a full body wax that day in Los Olivos.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know anything about that.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall your mother telling you she was going to leave Neverland to go to a salon.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss that with your mother.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know someone named Brett Ratner.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How do you know him.
Gavin Arvizo: He was Chris Tucker's director for the movie Rush Hour.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall asking Mr. Ratner if he would arrange for you to fly to Florida to meet Michael Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: You never did that.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't remember ever doing that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember Michael Jackson flying to Florida with Brett Ratner.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never heard about that.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall your mother ever signing an agreement regarding distribution of any of this footage on television.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you said something before -- or you began to say something about Michael Jackson asking you to sign an agreement, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, there's a little document he had me sign so that I can sign for the rebuttal or something. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember signing that document.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Michael never asked you to sign that, did he.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, he did. And he was with Brett Ratner, and Brett Ratner signed as a witness.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall your mother signing it also.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I was the only one that signed it.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall your mother signing any agreement regarding this video.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall your mother making any trips outside of Neverland into the city to do errands.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall your mother going shopping with Vinnie Amen.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me, I'm going to object to vagueness as to what period of time we're talking about here.
Mr. Mesereau: Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: We're talking about February 21st, which would be the same day you met Attorney William Dickerman and Jamie Masada at The Laugh Factory. Do you remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: I remember meeting him.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember your mother going shopping with Vinnie.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember your mother getting her hair done with Vinnie.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember shopping at Robinson's-May.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember shopping -- excuse me. Do you remember eating at an Outback Steakhouse.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember your mother going to any salon that day.
Gavin Arvizo: I think I remember my mom go to a salon and meet my stepfather.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know when that was, approximately.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember going on a shopping spree around February 26th with your mother.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. I remember they took us to Anchor Blue once because we told them that we didn't have a lot of clothes at Neverland, and they didn't want us to go to our house.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember going to Pacific Sunwear.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Banana Republic.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. I bought some boxers, I think.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Gap Outlet.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Levi Outlet.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Abercrombie & Fitch.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Wilson's Luggage, did you ever go there with your mother.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, they bought us luggage because they were saying they were going to take us to Brazil, and we didn't have luggage.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, two days later -- excuse me, one day later, do you recall going shopping to Robinson's-May.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall going shopping to Adidas.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Old Navy.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Anchor Blue.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Robinson's-May.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember on February 28th going to Hsong's Barber Shop for a haircut.
Gavin Arvizo: I got my hair cut there, but I don't know if we went on February 28th.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember going there with your mother.
Gavin Arvizo: I remember going there in the past with my mother.
Mr. Mesereau: When you were there, did anyone scream for help.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know if we went on February 28th to Hsong's Barber Shop.
Mr. Mesereau: When you went to Hsong's Barber Shop, did anyone scream for help, as far as you know.
Gavin Arvizo: As I said, I don't remember whether we went there during the time that we were down in Los Angeles area.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember anyone screaming for help at any of the stores that you recall going to during this period of time.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember going to the Brazilian consulate.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You went in there with your mother, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, I'm pretty sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember anybody screaming for help in the Brazilian consulate.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You were with your entire family, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember seeing a movie called Old School around March 1st, 2003.
Gavin Arvizo: A little bit.
Mr. Mesereau: Your mother, your brother, your sister and you went to that movie theater, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't really remember.
Mr. Mesereau: You also went to Anchor Blue that day, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe so. I guess.
Mr. Mesereau: When you went to see that movie, do you remember anybody screaming for help.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember eating at Johnny Rocket's Burgers that day.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, yeah. I remember that place. It was pretty good.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was after you saw the movie, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You went for burgers and ice cream, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember anybody screaming for help when you were at Johnny Rocket's.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know someone named Brad Buxer.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet any of Michael Jackson's movie producers at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know someone named Rio.
Gavin Arvizo: I think he was a little kid that was there for a while.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first meet Rio.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: But do you remember seeing Rio at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, he stood there for like a week or --
Mr. Mesereau: Did you stay in a guesthouse with Rio.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never did.
Gavin Arvizo: No. Well, I might have hung out with him for a while. No, I hung out with his sister, you know. And she was telling me about some girls that thought I was cute from the Martin Bashir thing, and then that was it.
Mr. Mesereau: This is Rio's sister.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there a television in the guest room at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: There's a television in every guest room.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever use that television.
Gavin Arvizo: We were always playing. We never watched T.V.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Rio ever in a room with you at the guesthouse.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to this line of questioning under the 403 ruling the Court made.
The Court: Sustained. Well, just a minute. I will change that ruling. You may ask.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Rio ever in a guest room with you when you were watching T.V. at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, no. I don't remember really -- I mean, I might have hung out with him in a guest room for a minute, but, I mean, I don't remember watching T.V. with him.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you saying you don't remember or are you saying it just didn't happen.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think it happened.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall ever telling Rio you wanted to look at adult movies on television at Neverland.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object.
The Court: Overruled.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever remember stealing alcohol from Michael Jackson's bedroom when Rio was present.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall stealing a $1,000 laminated bill from Michael's room.
Gavin Arvizo: A thousand dollar bill.
Mr. Mesereau: That was laminated.
Gavin Arvizo: Do they make thousand-dollar bills.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever steal one.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever recall masturbating in front of Rio.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, earlier in your testimony, you said that the only time you'd ever tasted wine was in church. Do you remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you telling the jury the only time you tasted wine before you went to Neverland was in a church.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell Rio or anyone else at Neverland that you knew what wine tasted like.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I don't remember telling him that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember calling Chris Tucker and telling him that you wanted to go to Miami to be with Michael Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: That never happened.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know if it did.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know if it did.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did your mother ever ask you to call Chris Tucker so that your family could go to Miami to be with Michael Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Has your mother ever coached you on what to say in this case.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Has your mother coached you on what to say in your legal disputes with your father.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Has your mother ever coached you on what to say in the J.C. Penney case.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Has your mother asked you to write out what you were going to say before you went to court.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever done that.
Gavin Arvizo: Done --
Mr. Mesereau: Written out what you plan to say before you went to court.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
The Court: Is this a good place to stop.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: All right. We'll recess until tomorrow morning at 8:30. Remember the admonitions. See you then.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:30 p.m.
