Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Thursday, March 10, 2005 8:35 a.m.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: Good morning. Try that again. Good morning.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor.
The Court: I notice the defendant's not present.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor. Mr. Jackson is at --
The Court: They can't hear you. Speak into the microphone, please.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Jackson is at Cottage Hospital in Santa Ynez with a serious back problem. My understanding is he's on his way in. The doctor does want to talk to you on the phone. That's the last information I have. I did give the -- I had the doctor on my cell phone. I did give it to your clerk and tried to make contact with you, but I -- I know that they're waiting, hoping to speak to you about it. My understanding is that he does plan to come in.
The Court: I'm going to issue a warrant for his arrest. I'm forfeiting his bail.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor --
The Court: I'm going to hold that order for one hour. In one hour I'm going to execute that order. Court's in recess.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Good morning.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor.
The Court: I'm sorry for the delay. Mr. Jackson had a medical problem this morning, and it was necessary for me to order his appearance. I'm telling you that because I don't want you to draw any adverse inference about his guilt or inference from the fact that I had to order him here. If one of you had called in and had not appeared, or one of the attorneys, I would have had to do the same thing. The trial is going to go forward. So I just want you to understand, in doing that, I'm not expressing any opinion about the case, about Mr. Jackson, or about the District Attorney. It has nothing to do with guilt or innocence. Okay. All right. Let's see. Are you ready to go forward.
Mr. Sneddon: I am, Your Honor. And before I begin, some housekeeping from yesterday.
The Court: Mike.
Mr. Sneddon: How's that.
The Court: They've quit waving at me. It's probably okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Some housekeeping from yesterday, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Yesterday we saw the overheads of those cards. For the record, I have consulted with Mr. Sanger. The cards came from Item No. 1796 from the sheriff's department. I now have the cards themselves, and I will give them to the clerk to substitute for the video in terms of the evidence.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sanger: I think it's Exhibit 5004, and we had temporarily lodged the disk. And now the actual cards are being exchanged.
The Court: It is 5004, and I will release the disk to you now. And thank you.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you, Your Honor.
The Court: The cards are admitted into evidence.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
The Court: Oh, there's one other issue I want to address. And as you heard yesterday, this witness has one kidney. That causes a problem. Sometimes he needs to go to the rest room more than others. Although we all seem to have that problem. (Laughter.)
The Court: If he needs to go, he's going to signal me, and we'll just wait a minute while he does that. Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you, Your Honor.
Message: GAVIN-ANTON ARVIZO Having been previously sworn, resumed the stand and testified further as follows:
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION Continued BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Good morning.
Gavin Arvizo: Morning, Tom; Mr. Sneddon.
Mr. Sneddon: I want to go back and talk about a couple of things that I neglected to cover yesterday. And I want to take you back in time to the first visit to Neverland Ranch, and in particular to the computer that Mr. Jackson gave you. Do you recall that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What kind of computer was it.
Gavin Arvizo: It had an apple on it. I think it was a Mac computer or something like that. It was, like, a laptop.
Mr. Sneddon: After Mr. Jackson gave you the computer, did you -- were you contacted by somebody to set up some kind of Internet account for that computer.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Well, Michael told me to call Evvy and see -- because he said he wanted me to get the Internet for the computer.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you know who Evvy was.
Gavin Arvizo: She was, like, an assistant lady for Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you do that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: And as a result of that, did you -- did somebody contact you after you talked to Evvy.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. It was a guy named David, I think.
Mr. Sneddon: And what was the purpose for which David contacted you.
Gavin Arvizo: To help -- to tell me how to set up the Internet account, because I didn't know how.
Mr. Sneddon: And who paid for that.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael did.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you set up the Internet account, did you have an e-mail address.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you -- what was the e-mail address.
Gavin Arvizo: Whitehawk344, I think.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you say “whitehawk”. Where did the e-mail address come from.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, my name “Gavin” in Irish, it means -- well, it means a lot of stuff. It means, like, three different things, but one of the things it means is “whitehawk”.
Mr. Sneddon: So where did you get the idea to do that.
Gavin Arvizo: Because “Gavin” means “whitehawk”, so that's why I it put on my screen name.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you have a password.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: What was your password.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, it could have been a lot of things, but I think it was “American”.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you change it from time to time.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember any of the other passwords you used.
Gavin Arvizo: Password 123456, 654321.
Mr. Sneddon: So you just changed the sequence of the numbers.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: One other thing I want to talk to you about. Between the time that -- well, let me ask it this way: Did you ever visit Mr. Jackson at any hotels.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where was that.
Gavin Arvizo: Once at a Universal Hilton.
Mr. Sneddon: And was this before, during or after the time you had cancer.
Gavin Arvizo: This is during the time I had cancer.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember how long you visited with him.
Gavin Arvizo: Two hours.
Mr. Sneddon: And how did you get there.
Gavin Arvizo: My biological father drove me over there.
Mr. Sneddon: Yesterday you testified about the Bashir video. Do you recall that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And have you ever seen that video from start to finish.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I've seen pieces of it, and I saw when he interviewed me, but I didn't really see the whole thing.
Mr. Sneddon: So you did see the part that involved you.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when was the first time you saw that.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, when we were -- when I was in Miami, me and Michael, he didn't want to see it, so we didn't watch it there. I saw it in my house later when VH-1 was showing it.
Mr. Sneddon: Was this after you left the ranch for good.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, I believe so.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, that portion of the video that shows you sitting on the couch with Mr. Jackson, there's a point in time where you place your head on his shoulder and hold hands with Mr. Jackson. Do you recall that part of it.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: How did that come about.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. We were just sitting there. Well, the holding hands part, that was one of the things that Michael told me to do. But I put my head on his shoulder.
Mr. Sneddon: Why did you do that.
Gavin Arvizo: Because -- I don't know. It was -- like he was -- I was really close to Michael, and he was like my best friend, so I just put my head on his shoulder.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, from the time that you had the interview with you and Mr. Jackson and Mr. Bashir till the time that you left to go to Miami, did you have any contact with Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: From when I left from Martin Bashir.
Mr. Sneddon: Right.
Gavin Arvizo: Can you repeat the question.
Mr. Sneddon: Sure. From the time that you had the interview with Mr. Bashir and Mr. Jackson and you --
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- okay. -- till the time shortly before you left for Miami, did you have any contact with Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember when the next contact with Mr. Jackson was.
Gavin Arvizo: Like, right when the stuff came out, when the video documentary started showing on T.V.
Mr. Sneddon: How did you find out that the documentary was shown on T.V..
Gavin Arvizo: Well, it was -- it was being showed over in Britain, but they were talking about it on the news and stuff, so that's how I found out.
Mr. Sneddon: You actually heard it on the news yourself.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Did any people come around your house at all, that you know of.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I don't know of any.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you heard it on the news, about the documentary, did you at some point have a telephone conversation with the defendant, Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. He called me.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Tell us about the conversation.
Gavin Arvizo: He told --
Mr. Sneddon: Where were you when you got the call.
Gavin Arvizo: I was in the house, in my house, when -- the first time I moved in with my stepfather. And then he called and wanted me to go to Miami because of all the stuff that was going on. And he said that he wanted to hold a press conference. And he wanted me to be with him.
Mr. Sneddon: With him --
Gavin Arvizo: During the press conference.
Mr. Sneddon: What else did he say.
Gavin Arvizo: He said that he wanted me to go over there. And he said that -- that -- like, we were talking about what was going on. And I was saying, “Ahh”, like, “it's not right what they're saying”, and stuff like that.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Mr. Jackson make comments about -- to you about what was going on.
Gavin Arvizo: No. He just said that he wanted me to go over to Miami.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you go to Miami.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you go by yourself.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Who went with you.
Gavin Arvizo: It was me, my brother, my sister, and my mom. But at first, Michael didn't really want -- he only really wanted --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive. Move to strike.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: I'll move on from there.
The Court: The last sentence is stricken.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, during the conversation with Mr. Jackson - okay.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- did the subject of the rest of your family going to Miami come up.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Gavin Arvizo: Can you repeat the question.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: During the time of your conversation with Mr. Jackson, did the subject of the rest of your family coming to Miami come up during the conversation.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you tell us about it.
Gavin Arvizo: At first I asked him if my brother can come, and then he was like, “Yeah”. And then I asked him if my sister could come, and then he was, like, Uhh, hmm, okay”. And then I asked if my mom could come, but he kind of got angry a little bit about my mom coming. And then -- but I told him, “I can't come without my mom. My mom probably won't let me”. And he was like, “Okay”, and my mom came.
Mr. Sneddon: Did -- during that conversation, did you -- did you see -- did you hear your mother talk to Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't really remember.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, after that telephone conversation, did you go to Miami.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: With -- and how did you get to Miami.
Gavin Arvizo: I went with Chris Tucker on his private plane.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall how you got to the plane.
Gavin Arvizo: First we went to his house, and then we put our bags in the bus, and then we went to the airport.
Mr. Sneddon: And how did you get from your place to his house.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not sure. I think either I drove over there, or -- yeah, I think I drove over there. Well, my family took me over there.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, do you remember about what time it was when you left for Miami -- for Miami with Mr. Tucker.
Gavin Arvizo: When we got there, there was -- like, something was going on with the plane or whatever, and we weren't leaving for a while. And I was -- we stood around for a while. So I think it was maybe, like, 1:00 or 2:00 probably. I'm not sure.
Mr. Sneddon: Was it still -- was it light or dark out.
Gavin Arvizo: It was light out.
Mr. Sneddon: When you arrived in Miami, was it light or dark out.
Gavin Arvizo: It was dark.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you landed in Miami, where did you go.
Gavin Arvizo: We went, all in a limousine, to the hotel. Turnberry Resort, I think it was called.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, on the plane going there, you've told us that your family was there and that Mr. Tucker was there. Was there anybody else, if you recall, on the plane.
Gavin Arvizo: With -- on Chris's plane.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: When you got to the airport, you left in a limo, and you went where.
Gavin Arvizo: To the Turnberry Resort in Miami.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember what you did when you got there.
Gavin Arvizo: They put our -- they got our bags and Michael put us up in the room. And then we were in the room, and then -- yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall what you did the next day.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, the next day they told us that Michael wanted to see us.
Mr. Sneddon: Who told you that.
Gavin Arvizo: I forgot. But, I mean, just people. And then so that morning we went up to Michael's room, and then we went and saw him.
Mr. Sneddon: Who went up there.
Gavin Arvizo: Me, my mom, my brother, and my sister.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you got up to Mr. Jackson's room in the hotel, was Mr. Jackson there.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you got there, did you meet people that you didn't know.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who did you meet.
Gavin Arvizo: Marie Nicole, Aldo. And then these two guys were there, Dieter and Ronald.
Mr. Sneddon: They were there when you got there.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah -- well, I don't know if they were there when I got there, but I just remember I met them in Michael's room.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you know what the relationship is between Aldo and Marie Nicole and anybody else that you met there that day or that you know.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, they told us that Marie Nicole and Aldo were related to Frank Tyson. Like brother and sister.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see Mr. Tyson that day.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, I don't think I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see him at any time that you were in Miami.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't think so.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell us what you did in Mr. Jackson's room.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, he wanted me to have a meeting with Ronald and Dieter, and so we went in there, and they were talking about how they're going to, like --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, offered under 1223.
The Court: Well, the question -- it's not responsive, so I don't know that. He's -- next question.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: You told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury you went somewhere with Mr. Jackson, you went into a room with Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Who else was in the room.
Gavin Arvizo: Dieter and Ronald.
Mr. Sneddon: And who else.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you have a conversation with the three of them.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Would you tell us about the conversation. And it's offered under 1223, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. This is offered conditionally, as my previous instruction covered. Go ahead.
Gavin Arvizo: We just -- Dieter and Ronald told me about how they were going to, like, stop all the media stuff from going on or whatever.
Mr. Sneddon: Did they say how they were going to do that.
Gavin Arvizo: No, not really. Dieter told me how he'd, like -- he said that he owned, like, the name, the rights to Michael's name or something like that.
Mr. Sneddon: At any time while you were in Miami, did you learn of any threats to you or your family.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall any other conversations that you had with Dieter or Ronald or Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really. Well, there was some -- I had talked with Michael in the room. It's kind of like connected to his big hotel room.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let me just stop you there. So you had another conversation with Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Were Dieter and Ronald present.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, first Michael was having, like, a meeting with Ronald. And then Ronald left, and then I went in there and was talking to him.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, is this the same meeting that you testified to the ladies and gentlemen of the jury, or is this another meeting.
Gavin Arvizo: This is another one.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell us about that meeting.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael was just, like, talking to me and stuff, asking me how I was, and stuff like that. And he gave me, like, another little audition thing, and he improv'd, if he was a principal of a school, and then a girl said that I did something bad, and then --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive. Move to strike.
The Court: “Tell us about the meeting” calls for a narrative, so I'll sustain the objection.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, tell us what Mr. Jackson said to you in the meeting.
Gavin Arvizo: He was, like, giving me a little audition, and then we were improv-ing.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Describe the improv-ing.
Gavin Arvizo: He was, like, the principal of a school, and I was a student that got in trouble because a girl said that I, like, stole something from her or something.
Mr. Sneddon: How long did this go on between you and Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: I think it was like five minutes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did anything else happen between you and Mr. Jackson during your stay at the Turnberry.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What.
Gavin Arvizo: He brought me this -- he had poured -- I didn't really see what he did, but I found out later. Like, I guess --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; calls for speculation.
Mr. Sneddon: Just tell us what he did, what you saw personally.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay. He brought me --
The Court: Just a moment. I'll sustain the objection, but you're asking another question.
Mr. Sneddon: I am, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike, Your Honor.
The Court: I'll strike the last half of his answer. Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Tell us what you saw Mr. Jackson do.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael gave me a Diet Coke can.
Mr. Sneddon: Did he tell you what was in the can.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, he told me that it was --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer “yes” or “no”.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael --
Mr. Sneddon: Just, did he tell you -- “yes” or “no”; did he tell you what was in the can.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. What did he tell you.
Gavin Arvizo: He told me if I ever heard of Jesus Juice, and then --
Mr. Sneddon: And what did you say.
Gavin Arvizo: And I said I didn't know really what it was.
Mr. Sneddon: And did he say anything after that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, he told me, “You know how, like, Jesus drank wine”. And I was like, “Yeah”. And then he told me, “Well, we call it Jesus Juice”. And then he said that -- to drink it. And I took a little sip, and I told him it --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Calls for a narrative; nonresponsive; move to strike.
The Court: Strike after -- where he starts to say “I took a little sip”, that's stricken.
Mr. Sneddon: After Mr. Jackson handed you the can and he told you that it was Jesus Juice, what did you do.
Gavin Arvizo: I drank a little bit of it, and I told him that it tasted ugly.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did he say.
Gavin Arvizo: He said that, “It's okay, because it will relax you”, and he told me that he knows that I'm all stressed out because of all the media stuff that's going on, and that the Jesus Juice will relax me.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, during -- do you recall how long you'd been in Mr. Jackson's suite at the time that he provided the alcohol to you.
Gavin Arvizo: I was in there for a while. Like, it was after the second meeting with him in the other room, the improv thing.
Mr. Sneddon: And from the time that Mr. Jackson gave you the can for the first time and you tasted it, how many times do you think you drank out of that can.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, we went -- well, after he --
Mr. Sneddon: Just -- first of all, I'll -- first of all, just how many times, that you estimate.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, I probably drank maybe -- I don't think I drank the whole can, but I probably drank like three-fourths of it or something.
Mr. Sneddon: Was the can ever refilled.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think it -- I'm not sure if it was refilled. I don't think it was.
Mr. Sneddon: Had you ever had wine before.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, in church, but that's about it.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you have any further conversations with Mr. Jackson, other than the ones that you've already told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury about, about the wine and drinking it.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, we -- after he told me that, about Jesus Juice or whatever, we went into the living room where everybody was, like Chris was and then my mom, Marie Nicole and Aldo and stuff like that, and we were sitting there, and then Michael was right next to me. And then I don't think my mom knew what was going on.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Calls for speculation; narrative; nonresponsive. Move to strike.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor --
The Court: Just a moment. What were you going to say.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm not going to say it now. I'll pick it up later.
The Court: The question was really if you had any further conversations with Mr. Jackson. You need to listen to the question. Just answer the question. That would have been a “yes” or “no” type question. So I'll sustain the objection and have you answer that question. I'll strike the rest of his answer.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did those conversations take place.
Gavin Arvizo: In the living room.
Mr. Sneddon: And were there other people present.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did Mr. Jackson say to you.
Gavin Arvizo: He was, like, telling me to keep drinking the can of the wine.
Mr. Sneddon: And where were you in the living room.
Gavin Arvizo: I was sitting on the couch, and he was sitting next to me.
Mr. Sneddon: Were there other people present in the room.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who else was around.
Gavin Arvizo: Chris Tucker, my mom, Aldo, Marie Nicole, my brother, my sister.
Mr. Sneddon: And you say you were drinking out of a can. What kind of a can.
Gavin Arvizo: Pretty sure it was a Diet Coke can.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall whether -- the kind of wine it was.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm pretty sure it was white wine.
Mr. Sneddon: Were there -- how many occasions were you in the bedroom alone with Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: At Miami.
Mr. Sneddon: Uh-huh.
Gavin Arvizo: Once.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you alone with him in any other rooms in his suite or complex there.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you woke up the next day, how did you feel.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I didn't know if it was from the wine, but I felt really -- like, my head kind of hurt and I felt like I just wanted to lay down.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, after -- at some point in time that night when you were in Mr. Jackson's suite -- let me strike that. At some point when you were in Mr. Jackson's suite, did the subject of the Bashir video come up.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell us in what connection it came up. Who spoke about it.
Gavin Arvizo: It was going to be shown in America that same night, and it was going to come on, and then Michael didn't want us --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
Gavin Arvizo: Can I have some water.
Mr. Sneddon: Sure. Help yourself.
The Court: All right. The last three words I'll strike, or four words, “Michael didn't want us...”. He answered the question up till that point.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't want to, like, interrupt anything.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, about the Bashir filming that night, did Mr. Jackson say anything.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, he said that he didn't want --
Mr. Sneddon: He said something.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Tell us what he said.
Gavin Arvizo: He said that he didn't want to watch it on T.V.
Mr. Sneddon: So was anybody else interested in watching it.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
The Court: Overruled. Next question.
Mr. Sneddon: Were they allowed to watch it.
Gavin Arvizo: Not in his room.
Mr. Sneddon: At some point that night, did you see your mother leave.
Gavin Arvizo: I think so. I think she went back to the room.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you -- did you see her later come back to the -- to Mr. Jackson's suite, or bedroom area, after she left.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at some point you left Miami, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And how -- when you left Miami, how -- what form of transportation did you take.
Gavin Arvizo: It was in one of Michael's planes.
Mr. Sneddon: And how did you get to the plane.
Gavin Arvizo: In a limousine, I think.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, who was on the plane.
Gavin Arvizo: Me, my brother, my sister, Marie Nicole. Prince, Paris. Grace. My mom. Michael. And me. So it was a pretty packed plane.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, while you were on the plane, where were you seated.
Gavin Arvizo: I sat next to Michael in the window.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Gavin Arvizo: I had a window seat and Michael was sitting right next to me.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall who was sitting across from you.
Gavin Arvizo: I think Prince and Paris were sitting in front of us, but then they kept on -- they got up during the flight, and then other people would sit there and stuff.
Mr. Sneddon: So were people changing seats during the flight.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever change seats.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Mr. Jackson ever change seats.
Gavin Arvizo: I think he got up for something once, but I never moved from that seat.
Mr. Sneddon: During the course of the flight from Miami, did you ever drink any alcohol.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, who provided that alcohol to you.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: And can you tell us in what -- what it was provided to you in.
Gavin Arvizo: I think it was another Coke can or Diet Coke can.
Mr. Sneddon: And what kind of alcohol was it.
Gavin Arvizo: I think it was white wine again.
Mr. Sneddon: And where -- did you see where Mr. Jackson got the can from.
Gavin Arvizo: From the little place where they keep all the sodas in the plane.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when -- where were you when you physically drank out of the container, the can.
Gavin Arvizo: I was next to Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: And did Mr. Jackson say anything to you when he gave you the can.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, he told me it was more Jesus Juice. And he said that -- on the plane that -- he told me about how he used to get scared about planes, and he said that if I was scared and -- to drink the Jesus Juice, because it will relax me.
Mr. Sneddon: How much do you think you drank while you were on the plane.
Gavin Arvizo: I think I drank the whole can.
Mr. Sneddon: Was the can ever refilled.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know how many times.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you always drinking out of the same can as Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Mr. Jackson ever say anything to you about him providing alcohol to you.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Will you tell us what he said.
Gavin Arvizo: He would tell me that -- can you repeat the question again. I'm sorry.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you read it back.
The Court Reporter: Did Mr. Jackson ever say anything to you about him providing alcohol to you.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, he just told me that he was getting it for me. I don't really understand too good.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Mr. Jackson ever give you any presents.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Other than the computer.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did he ever give you any presents while you were in Miami.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, he had, like, all these games from EA.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Gavin Arvizo: EA, Electronic Arts, I think they're called. They got me a whole bunch of games. And then he let me have all the games that Aldo didn't really like.
Mr. Sneddon: When you were on the plane, did Mr. Jackson give you anything.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What did he give you.
Gavin Arvizo: As we were taking off -- well, in the hotel, he also gave me a jacket. But when we were taking off on the plane, he showed me a watch, and then he had it on, and he told -- he gave me the watch as we were taking off.
Mr. Sneddon: Did he say why he gave you the watch.
Gavin Arvizo: He said not to tell anybody about the Jesus Juice, and he said that this is like a symbol that we'll be friends forever or something like that. And then he gave me the watch.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you have his jacket and his watch.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: During the course of the flight, were you awake the entire time.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't think so. I think I fell asleep once.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you have any idea how long you were out.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Is there a telephone on this plane.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And where is the telephone located.
Gavin Arvizo: It was, like, right next to us. Probably like right here. So I was sitting -- the window was here and Michael was here, and the telephone was right here.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you see anybody use the telephone during the course of the flight.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't think so.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you use the telephone during the flight.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Pardon.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did you use the telephone for.
Gavin Arvizo: I called a friend of mine.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I have an exhibit marked 343 for identification purposes, a brown bag with contents, and I'll show it to the witness. And I'm also going to leave in front of the witness a clear plastic bag with the number “342” on it, and the contents of that bag.
Mr. Sneddon: Gavin, would you take a look at -- just look inside and see if you recognize the item in 343.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. I recognize the item.
Mr. Sneddon: What is it.
Gavin Arvizo: It's a jacket that Michael gave me in Miami.
Mr. Sneddon: Move that it be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection, Your Honor.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Could you just, Gavin, stand up, and just put the jacket out so that the ladies and gentlemen can see the jacket, the front and the back. Thank you. Now, the next exhibit in front of you is a clear plastic bag.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what's the number on that exhibit.
Gavin Arvizo: 342.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Do you recognize the contents of People's 342.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what is that.
Gavin Arvizo: This is the watch that Michael gave me right before the plane took off.
Mr. Sneddon: Move that it be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah, why don't you --
Gavin Arvizo: Give it to you.
Mr. Sneddon: No, just stand up and show it to them. Okay. Now I'm going to ask you a question about the watch. With regard to that particular watch, did Mr. Jackson make any statements to you about the value of the watch when he gave it to you.
Gavin Arvizo: He told me that it was $75,000.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you keep that watch.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: At some point, did you give that watch to somebody.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. I think I gave it to Tom.
Mr. Sneddon: To me.
Gavin Arvizo: I mean -- no, Larry.
Mr. Sneddon: Larry.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know who Larry is.
Gavin Arvizo: Larry Feldman, I think.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember when that was. Had you left Neverland for the last time.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And that's -- and after that, you gave the watch to him.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you were at Neverland Ranch, did anybody ever ask you to give the watch back.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, let's go back to the flight just a second, if we can. All right.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: Where was your brother Star on the plane.
Gavin Arvizo: He was walking around on the plane.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever see Star drink out of the soda can.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell the jury what happened.
Gavin Arvizo: We called my brother Star over, and Michael asked him if he knew what Jesus Juice was. And then we gave him the can and we just told him to drink it. And then when he drank it, he said that it tasted bad, and so, like -- I don't know. That's what happened.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see the expression on his face when he drank it.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, he acted like it was a gross-tasting taste, face. I don't know how to say it.
Mr. Sneddon: I have another exhibit we're going to spend a little time with.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, this exhibit is - I'm sorry, Counsel - 344 for identification purposes. I'm going to hand this to the witness. And why don't you hand me those two things right there. Take that. And here's a pen. Don't do anything yet.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Do you recognize the exhibit that I've just placed in front of you.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, it looks like the inside of the plane that we were in.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Your Honor, I'm going to move that be admitted into evidence for the purpose of illustrating his testimony.
Mr. Mesereau: I have no objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. We're going to put a diagram on the board -- on the Elmo in just a second. This is a laser.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Go ahead. Put it up.
Mr. Auchincloss: It should be coming up.
The Bailiff: It will take a moment.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Gavin --
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- I want you to look up on the board, and ask if you can show the ladies and gentlemen of the jury where you were seated on the plane. Okay. So you're indicating in the middle of the diagram, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, on the chart that's in front of you - okay. - 344 --
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- I want you to take that pen I gave you and I want you to put your initials in the seat that you've just showed to the ladies and gentlemen of the jury. Now, I want you to show the ladies and gentlemen of the jury where Mr. Jackson was seated, sitting. Okay. It's the one right next to you, closest to the aisle; is that correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you put an “MJ” on the seat where he was located. Now, do you recall where your brother Star was sitting at the time that he was offered the can with the alcohol in it by Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think he was sitting. He was standing, and he was --
Mr. Sneddon: Where was he standing.
Gavin Arvizo: Right there.
Mr. Sneddon: Right in that area.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you put your brother's initials -- and by “that area”, you're meaning in the aisle at the end of the table, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Just put your brother's initials where you.... Now, do you remember where your mom was sitting.
Gavin Arvizo: I think she was sitting over here somewhere.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Move the diagram, if you would. Do you think she was down there.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, I think so.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Put your mother's initials in there, if you would. And by “there”, we mean on the upper side of the diagram with the chair that's the farthest to the left.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay. What do I put. “JJ” or --
Mr. Sneddon: “JA”. Do you remember where any other of the people on the plane were sitting.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not sure, but Prince and Paris started out right there. And then I think Grace was in there.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Why don't you -- where you say Prince and Paris were, put two “P's” on your diagram, 344.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: And you mentioned a person by the name of Grace. Who is that, to your knowledge.
Gavin Arvizo: It's like -- like Prince and Paris's guardian lady.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So why don't you put a “G” where you think that the individual you knew as Grace was sitting. All right. Anybody else. Do you remember where Aldo and Marie Nicole were sitting.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not sure. I think they might have been sitting on those things.
Mr. Sneddon: On the area in blue.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: But you're not sure.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And how about your sister.
Gavin Arvizo: I think she was sitting there.
Mr. Sneddon: Was she there the whole time.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see where she moved to.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. I'd just see her pass by. We were all sitting sometimes.
Mr. Sneddon: You indicated for your sister a seat that's up on the front part of the left side of the diagram on the lower side of the plane, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Why don't you put your sister's initials in there, then.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I think we're done with that.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: We can turn the lights back on, Your Honor. Put the cap on the pen, if you would, please. Thanks, Gavin.
Mr. Sneddon: Gavin, do you know what it means to be intoxicated.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What's that mean, in your words.
Gavin Arvizo: When you have a lot of alcohol in your system.
Mr. Sneddon: When you were on the plane, did you feel intoxicated.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. I don't think so. Well, maybe a little.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Do you remember when you landed in the plane whether it was daylight or dark outside.
Gavin Arvizo: I think it was -- it was dark.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you landed, where did you go.
Gavin Arvizo: We went to Neverland.
Mr. Sneddon: And how did you get there.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael had, like, this big SUV, white, limousine.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you got to Neverland Ranch, where did you spend the night.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm pretty sure we spent the night in Michael's room.
Mr. Sneddon: You say “we”. Who is “we”.
Gavin Arvizo: Me and my brother.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember if anything happened that particular night.
Gavin Arvizo: When we got there, me and my brother ran straight to the carts, because we wanted to ride the carts, drive the carts around. But then we went to Michael's room and we slept there, and we all slept in the bed together.
Mr. Sneddon: In whose bed.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael's.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, are you familiar with a person by the name of Jesus.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you meet Jesus.
Gavin Arvizo: At the ranch.
Mr. Sneddon: And to your knowledge, what was Mr. -- what was Jesus's responsibility.
Gavin Arvizo: I think he was like the manager of the ranch.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, after you got back from Miami and you were on Neverland Ranch - okay. - at some point did Jesus take you somewhere.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did he take you.
Gavin Arvizo: He took us back to my grandma's house.
Mr. Sneddon: When you say he took “us”, who is “us”.
Gavin Arvizo: Me, my mom, my brother, my sister.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, I want to talk about some things that happened between the time that you got back from Miami and you went to the ranch --
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: -- okay. -- till the time that Mr. Salas, I'm sorry, that Jesus took you to your grandmother's place, okay.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you told us that the first time that night you spent in Mr. Jackson's room and you slept in his bed, along with your brother and Mr. Jackson. From the time you got back from Miami till the time you left with Jesus, where did you sleep.
Gavin Arvizo: Can you repeat the question. I'm sorry.
Mr. Sneddon: Uh-huh. From the time you got back from Miami and you went to the ranch --
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- okay. -- till the time you left with Jesus - all right. - where did you sleep.
Gavin Arvizo: Whenever Michael was there, we would all sleep in Michael's room.
Mr. Sneddon: Was Mr. Jackson there during that time period.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: During the time after you got to the ranch, when the limousine took you from the airport to Neverland Valley Ranch, till the time you left with Jesus, did you ever have any more alcohol.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: On how many occasions.
Gavin Arvizo: Every night that Michael was there.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Do you remember where you drank.
Gavin Arvizo: We would -- like, in the arcade, because that's where the wine cellar was. Well, it's kind of like a wine cellar.
Mr. Sneddon: You say “we”. Who's “we”.
Gavin Arvizo: Me, my brother, Michael mainly.
Mr. Sneddon: And how did you get into the wine cellar.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael would take us there.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury, just describe how you get down there.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay. In the back of the main house, there's an arcade. And then, like, you walk across, and there's a pool to the right, and then you go inside the arcade. And then, like, there's this jukebox, and then you have to move the jukebox. And then you walk down these stairs, and there's a door that you open. It's kind of like to the right. And then you walk in there, and there's no alcohol in the first room. There's, like, sleeping bags, I think, like a little green couch. And then you walk through, and then to the right there's another door, and then there's like this hallway kind of thing, and then that's where, like, all the alcohol was, in refrigerators and stuff like that.
Mr. Sneddon: And who was it that took you down to that area the first time.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever go down there without Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: No. Well, we went down there once. That was just because we wanted to, like, look at the little green thing that they had there with all the trees and stuff on there. It was kind of like a model thing.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever go down there and drink any alcohol without Mr. Jackson being present.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: And you said “we” went down there to look at these little green things. Who was it that went with you.
Gavin Arvizo: Me and my brother.
Mr. Sneddon: Was it a time when Mr. Jackson was on the ranch.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, were there any other locations on the ranch where you drank with Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where.
Gavin Arvizo: In his office and in his room.
Mr. Sneddon: And would this be during the same time period we're talking about, from the time period from when you got there from Miami till the time you left with Jesus.
Gavin Arvizo: If it happened.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there ever any occasion that you drank something other than wine.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell us what it was.
Gavin Arvizo: I drank Bacardi, vodka and Jim Bean.
Mr. Sneddon: Jim what.
Gavin Arvizo: Jim Bean, I think it was called.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you say “bean”.
Gavin Arvizo: Bean.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you spell it.
Gavin Arvizo: B-e-a-n.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And who provided you with the Bacardi.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Who provided you with the Jim Bean.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: And who provided you with the vodka.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Mr. Jackson ever say anything to you about drinking and providing this alcohol to you.
Gavin Arvizo: No, he just said, like, well, it's Jesus Juice and it was okay because Jesus drank it, and stuff like that.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever tell Mr. Jackson that you only had one kidney.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you ever tell Mr. Jackson anything about alcohol and your kidney.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever have a conversation with Mr. Jackson about your kidneys.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Kidney.
Gavin Arvizo: Kidney, yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Sorry. What did you tell him.
Gavin Arvizo: I told him that it was bad for me to drink alcohol. And he said it's okay; that it's fine; that nothing's going to happen.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall how many occasions you had that conversation with Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: I think like three times.
Mr. Sneddon: I couldn't hear you.
Gavin Arvizo: Maybe like three times.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was it when you had these conversations with Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: I think once was in the office and the other two times were in kind of like the wine cellar thing.
Mr. Sneddon: Were there times that you went down to the wine cellar where your brother wasn't present.
Gavin Arvizo: It was just me and Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: How many times do you think that just you and Michael went down to the wine cellar. Now, I want to stay -- that was a bad question. Let me just start over again. Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: I want to focus on the time where you got there from Miami and the limo took you to the ranch till the time that you left with Jesus, okay.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever go to the wine cellar with just you and Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And on how many occasions was it just you and Mr. Jackson in the wine cellar.
Gavin Arvizo: Not many. But, like, maybe five times between Miami and Jesus.
Mr. Sneddon: During the time that you were there from Miami to Jesus, did you ever drink in the bedroom.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: How many times do you think that was.
Gavin Arvizo: A lot, because we would sleep in his room, and then we would take the Jesus Juice up there.
Mr. Sneddon: So you'd take the stuff up there to drink.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, let me ask you a question: Do you know what the term “crank call” means.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell the jury what “crank call” means.
Gavin Arvizo: When you call, like, a person that doesn't know you, and you, like, say something or make fun of them and it will make you laugh, the people that are making the phone call.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever make any crank calls from Mr. Jackson's residence.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where were you when you made them.
Gavin Arvizo: In his room mainly.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there anybody else present.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who.
Gavin Arvizo: My brother.
Mr. Sneddon: And anybody else.
Gavin Arvizo: Aldo.
Mr. Sneddon: Anybody else.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael. I guess that's it. Yeah, that's it.
Mr. Sneddon: Did anybody else make any crank calls besides you.
Gavin Arvizo: We were all making crank calls.
Mr. Sneddon: You say “we were all”. Who do you mean by “we”.
Gavin Arvizo: Aldo, Michael, me, my brother.
Mr. Sneddon: And in connection with making these calls, was there anything that -- do you know what it means when the call doesn't go through, you don't get somebody.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What happened when you did that.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, this happened once. We had this big -- like, it was a bottle of wine, it was like that big. And we made up this game. If you make a phone call and, like, we would dial random numbers, and if it rang and nobody picked up, you have to take a big gulp of wine. Because we didn't really like how it tasted, so we made up that game.
Mr. Sneddon: “So” what.
Gavin Arvizo: We didn't really like how it tasted, so we made that game up so we would have a drink, a gulp of wine, if the call didn't go through.
Mr. Sneddon: Did anybody have to drink because the call didn't go through that night.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: You have that look on your face like it was you.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, it was me.
Mr. Sneddon: Anybody else.
Gavin Arvizo: I think my brother once or twice. It's because, like, I would always -- because I kind of liked making crank calls, so I would make a lot of them, and so then a lot of them wouldn't go through.
Mr. Sneddon: During the time you were at the ranch again, from the time you got there in the limo till the time you left with Jesus, do you know where your mother was staying.
Gavin Arvizo: In her unit.
Mr. Sneddon: In her what.
Gavin Arvizo: In her unit that they gave her.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you ever go visit her.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: How many times do you think you visited her.
Gavin Arvizo: Like, three times a week.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you have -- don't tell us what she said, just tell us -- I want to know, did you have any conversations with her.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever have any conversations with her about leaving.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you want to leave, you personally.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really, because I was kind of having fun.
Mr. Sneddon: Could you describe your mother's demeanor or attitude during the time that you'd visit her.
Gavin Arvizo: She was scared and she wanted to leave, and she was --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Move to strike; nonresponsive.
The Court: The last part of the answer is stricken after “she was scared”.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I believe that I'm offering the second part of it with regard to conduct in conformance with the state of mind. It was an exception.
The Court: The question was, “Could you describe your mother's demeanor or attitude”. Which he then started describing her actions, so it's nonresponsive.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I'll break it up.
Mr. Sneddon: Did your mother tell you that she wanted to leave.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Hearsay; and leading.
The Court: Further foundation would be necessary.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Were -- the conversations that you had with your mother, where were they.
Gavin Arvizo: They were usually in her room.
Mr. Sneddon: And how did the topics about her being scared come up. Don't tell us what was --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
Mr. Sneddon: Just tell us who brought the subject matter up.
Gavin Arvizo: She did.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; leading.
The Court: Overruled. Proceed with the foundation.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Mr. Sneddon: Who brought them up.
Gavin Arvizo: My mom.
Mr. Sneddon: And were there any other persons present.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't think so.
Mr. Sneddon: During those conversations -- how many conversations do you think you had with her about the fact that she was scared.
Gavin Arvizo: Like every time I would go there.
Mr. Sneddon: During those conversations, did she tell you anything about whether or not she wanted to be on the ranch.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Hearsay; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. State of mind.
Mr. Sneddon: You may answer.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What did she tell you.
Gavin Arvizo: She told me that she was afraid that they were going to kill us, and then that she wanted to leave.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you got back to the ranch -- back to the ranch, Neverland Valley Ranch, after you came from Miami - okay. -- I think there's a better way. Let me do it this way. Your Honor, I'm just going to -- instead of showing them on the overhead, I'm just going to show them to the witness because they've been up so many times already, with the Court's permission.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me, are they all in evidence.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes. No, I'd show you anything new.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to show you a photograph. I'll just put these in front of you. Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: I'll show you a photograph marked People's 28. Do you recognize the person in that photograph.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who is that.
Gavin Arvizo: Jamie Masada.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Why don't you turn the next one over. Just show it to the jury, if you would, for just a second. All right. Do you recognize the person depicted in that photograph.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who is that.
Gavin Arvizo: Dieter.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Turn it over. The next one, what's the number on that.
Gavin Arvizo: 18.
Mr. Sneddon: 18. And who is that.
Gavin Arvizo: Ronald.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Turn it over. And the next one. All right. Who is that, and what's the number on that. Is that 20.
Gavin Arvizo: 20.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Who is that.
Gavin Arvizo: Frank.
Mr. Sneddon: Turn that one down. Does Frank have a last name, that you know of.
Gavin Arvizo: Tyson.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. The next one is what number. 21.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Who's that.
Gavin Arvizo: Aldo.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Why don't you turn that one over. And the last one is 22.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And who is that.
Gavin Arvizo: That's Marie Nicole.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Just go ahead and turn that one over. Now, let me ask you a question about the people you've identified as Dieter and Ronald. Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you got back from -- from Miami and you went to the ranch - okay. - and before you left with Jesus, same time period --
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- did you see either Dieter or Ronald at Neverland Valley Ranch.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't think so.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever see them at the ranch.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: When do you think you saw them there.
Gavin Arvizo: I think I saw them when we came back when -- after we left with Jesus.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you've identified the photograph of Mr. Tyson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you see Mr. Tyson at the ranch.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. I don't think so.
Mr. Sneddon: During the entire time you were there, you don't recall seeing him.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, I remember seeing him there at Neverland.
Mr. Sneddon: Oh, okay. Do you recall when it was you saw him there.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't remember the first time.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember on how many occasions you saw him there.
Gavin Arvizo: No. But I saw him there a lot. Well --
Mr. Sneddon: I can't hear you.
Gavin Arvizo: No, but I saw him there.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever see -- the two people that you talked about there, Dieter and Ronald - okay --.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- were they at the ranch at the same time as Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, I believe so.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever see them together.
Gavin Arvizo: I think so. I did once or twice.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. You left with the person you've identified to the jury as a person by the name of Jesus. Do you recall that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you told us you went to your grandparents' place. What time was it when you left with Jesus.
Gavin Arvizo: Late at night.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall who it was that -- well, was it the person you knew as Jesus who did the driving.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: When you got to your grandparents' place, did you ever go back to Neverland Valley Ranch after that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall how many days there were in between the time you left and the time you went back.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not sure. I think a few days.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you ever recall, during the time that you were off of the ranch, having a telephone conversation with Frank Tyson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And where were you when you received -- when you participated in that telephone conversation.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not sure.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall who else was present during the conversation.
Gavin Arvizo: My mom.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you talk to Mr. Tyson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did Mr. Tyson say to you. And it's offered under 1223, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. I'm accepting this testimony conditionally, as before.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection noted, Your Honor.
The Court: Noted.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
Gavin Arvizo: He was telling me about that they were scared that something was going to happen to me, and that they were worried, and they wanted us to come back up, stuff like that.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever make any complaints to Mr. Tyson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: And what complaint did you make to Mr. Tyson.
Gavin Arvizo: That I didn't like the -- Dieter and Ronald.
Mr. Sneddon: And why did you say that.
Gavin Arvizo: Because they had my mom worried, really. And my mom was scared of them, so....
Mr. Sneddon: Where was it that your mom had contact with Dieter and Ronald.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know where it was that your mother had contact with Ronald or Dieter.
Gavin Arvizo: Now that I think back, I think it was at Neverland, so I think they were there before we left with Jesus. Or it could have been a phone call.
Mr. Sneddon: I couldn't -- all right. So you -- you voiced a complaint to Mr. Tyson on the phone.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did Mr. Tyson say to you about the complaint. Do you recall anything.
Gavin Arvizo: He said that we'll never have to see them again.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection, hearsay.
Mr. Sneddon: Offered for the same purpose, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. I'll allow the testimony under the conditional admittance of hearsay that I've ruled on before. I'm a little concerned, though. It's not clear to me --
Mr. Sneddon: How about if I go back and ask a clarifying question. I think I know where the Court's going.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: I might be able to help the Court.
Mr. Sneddon: You told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury that you had a telephone conversation with Mr. Tyson at some point after you had left the ranch with Jesus; is that correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And that your mother was present during that conversation.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And that you personally talked to Mr. Tyson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, you were about to tell us something that Mr. Tyson said, and I believe -- if you could do that. And again, it's offered for the same reason, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: I'll admit it conditionally.
Mr. Sneddon: Go ahead.
Gavin Arvizo: He just told me that I would never have to see them again.
Mr. Sneddon: See “them”, meaning who.
Gavin Arvizo: Dieter and Ronald.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at some point you went back to the ranch --
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- is that correct. And do you recall how you got back there.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not too sure.
Mr. Sneddon: Who went back with you.
Gavin Arvizo: Me, my mom, my brother, my sister.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you got back to the ranch, do you recall whether -- what time of the day or night it was.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: When you got back to the ranch, do you recall whether or not you saw Dieter or Ronald.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall where they were when you saw them.
Gavin Arvizo: I think I saw Dieter in the kitchen sitting on the stool thing. And he's saying that we were going to, like, go to --
Mr. Sneddon: You're going to have to talk into that and not mumble.
Gavin Arvizo: And he told us that he wanted to, like, go to Australia or Brazil, or something like that, for a vacation.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know whether or not your mom remained on the ranch, or left that night or that day that you got back.
Gavin Arvizo: I think that was the day that she went down to see my now stepdad.
Mr. Sneddon: I can't hear you.
Gavin Arvizo: I think that was the day that she went down to go see my now stepdad.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, during the time that you were at Neverland Valley Ranch, you've told us that you were in Mr. Jackson's bedroom and in his bed, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, how do you get into Mr. Jackson's bedroom.
Gavin Arvizo: You walk through these big double doors, and then -- and then you walk to the other door, and then you punch in a code, and then there are two other double doors, the little lock goes off, and then you can open the door, and then -- and that's his room.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, are there any -- does anything go off when you get to a certain point --
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- that you're walking down the hallway.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What is it that goes off.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, when you go in the first door, it goes like this, a little ringing sound goes off. And then when you punch in the code, another -- it goes off again.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you hear from the outside of -- when it goes off.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you tell us what it sounds like.
Gavin Arvizo: “Dee-doo, dee-doo”. Sounds like that.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall how many times it goes -- I'm not going to imitate you -- how many times it does that.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not sure. I think it was like -- maybe like three times.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, where did you get the code to get into Mr. Jackson's bedroom or into his bedroom suite.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Pardon.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there more than one code to get in there.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, I think so. Because the nurse -- I mean, not the nurse. The maid lady would punch in a different code than the one I knew.
Mr. Sneddon: So did you get another set of codes from somebody.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, from -- for the other -- well, there's another door to the main house that I knew a code for.
Mr. Sneddon: You did or did not.
Gavin Arvizo: Did.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Where did you get that information from.
Gavin Arvizo: Either it was Michael that gave it to me or the maids gave it to me. Because they change it sometimes, so --
Mr. Sneddon: Now, do you remember -- you told us that some of the times that you drank vodka with Mr. Jackson, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you ever remember a situation -- what effect did the vodka have on you.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, there was just one time -- well, vodka really tasted --
Mr. Sneddon: You're going to have to lean into that and talk so we can hear you.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't really understand what you're --
Mr. Sneddon: What effect did the vodka have on you.
Gavin Arvizo: What did it make me feel like.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, there was one time where -- where the first time that Michael introduced me to vodka, he had, like, a glass about that big --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Calls for a narrative; nonresponsive.
The Court: It's nonresponsive.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Did Mr. Jackson provide vodka to you.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And how did he -- and what did he provide it to you in.
Gavin Arvizo: In a glass about that big.
Mr. Sneddon: So you're indicating maybe two or three inches.
Gavin Arvizo: I guess. I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: And what kind of a glass -- where were you when he provided it to you.
Gavin Arvizo: I was in the wine cellar.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you see him pour the vodka into it.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you know what it was when you first sipped it.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: How was it that you ended up drinking that particular glass.
Gavin Arvizo: I walked down there, because I asked where Michael was -- well, we were in the arcade, and that's what we usually kind of did. And then so I went down to the wine cellar and I saw Michael there, and then Michael had the glass poured. And then I asked him what that was, and he said, “Drink it”. And then he said like --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: Nonresponsive.
Mr. Sneddon: What did he say to you.
Gavin Arvizo: He told me to drink the --
The Court: Just a moment. There's an objection pending, or just to the narrative.
Mr. Mesereau: Narrative, Your Honor.
The Court: Go ahead with your next question.
Mr. Sneddon: What did he say to you.
Gavin Arvizo: He told me to drink the vodka.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you do that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, but I didn't know it was vodka. I thought it was water, because it's, like, clear.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: So I drank it really fast like if it was water. And then I didn't really -- when I brought it to my nose, it smelled like rubbing alcohol, and then I chucked it back really quick, and it started burning. Well, I, like, took down the whole thing, but it really burned. And then like two or three seconds later my head started -- like it looked like the room was spinning, so I put my head inside the couch. You know the green couch that I was talking about. I put my head inside it so I couldn't see the room spinning, because it was kind of hurting.
Mr. Sneddon: Why did you do that. Why did you put your head into the couch, in the pillow.
Gavin Arvizo: I -- I remember when I was a little, we'd spin around a lot when we play. I would close my eyes or put my head into a pillow or something, so that way I wouldn't see the room spin.
Mr. Sneddon: Was that the only occasion that you drank vodka with Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Were there other occasions.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: How many, do you think, where you had vodka with Mr. --
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not sure. Because when we'd drink wine, we'd usually have a little bit of vodka, so -- a lot of times.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, at this time I have an exhibit marked as 345 for identification purposes. And I've shown it to Mr. Sanger, but I'll show it to other counsel. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Sneddon: Okay, Gavin.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: I put in front of you an item marked as Exhibit 345. Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you asked to look at that last night.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to looking at that, were you asked to see if you recognized the material that's on that video.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: I move that it be admitted and played to the jury, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, we're going to object on foundation grounds. We've reviewed that. There are severe problems with the accuracy of that.
Bailiff Cortez: Can't hear you, Mr. Mesereau.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh. Pardon me.
The Court: Do you want to restate your objection.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor. We have reviewed the DVD. We strongly object on foundation grounds and authenticity grounds. We think it's a mischaracterization and a misrepresentation of what it tries to depict, and we have factual reasons for that.
The Court: What is it a DVD of.
Mr. Sneddon: It's the chimes that go off when you go in the door.
The Court: Oh.
Mr. Sneddon: And it was -- I won't say anything more, unless you want me to.
Mr. Mesereau: It's inaccurate, Your Honor.
The Court: That's subject to cross-examination, though.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, I think --
The Court: There is a foundation problem, though. He didn't create the video. He just watched it.
Mr. Sneddon: That's correct. But it's illustrative of what his testimony is with regard to the sound. So I think it's admissible on that basis. And I'll represent to the Court, without any question we'll be able to lay the foundation as to who took that and that it is accurate.
Mr. Mesereau: We'd object on authenticity and foundation, Your Honor. It's not an accurate depiction of what it purports to be.
The Court: The -- all right. Let me look a minute, here. All right. I'm going to sustain the foundation objection. Right now the foundation that you laid was: “Do you recognize 345. “Yes. “Were you asked to look at it last night. “Yes. “And with regard to looking at that, were you asked to see if you recognized the material on the video. “Yes. “And did you. “Yes”. So I find that is an insufficient foundation.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Then what I propose to do at this point, Your Honor, would be to have this witness step down and I'll put Sergeant Robel on to lay the foundation.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: I can do that between now and the break, and then the witness can come back immediately afterwards.
Mr. Mesereau: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Gavin, would you step out, please. Call Sergeant Robel.
Message: STEVE DANIEL ROBEL Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Steve Robel: Yes, I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Steve Robel: Steve Daniel Robel. R-o-b-e-l.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: You're a Sergeant with the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department.
Steve Robel: Yes, I am.
Mr. Sneddon: How long have you been with the sheriff's department.
Steve Robel: Approximately 22 years.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, on November the 18th of 2003, were you present during the execution of a search warrant at Neverland Valley Ranch.
Steve Robel: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sneddon: And are you one of the lead investigators into the case against the defendant in this case, Michael Jackson.
Steve Robel: Yes, I am.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you present at the time that entry was made into his residence.
Steve Robel: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you in the company of the individual who was filming the entry into the house.
Steve Robel: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you accompany that person all through the house.
Steve Robel: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And have you had occasion to review -- and did he videotape the entire house before anybody made any other entry into it.
Steve Robel: Yes, he did.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you accompany him in that part of the house where the hallway leads into Mr. Jackson's bedroom suite.
Steve Robel: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you present when he videotaped that.
Steve Robel: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sneddon: And have you reviewed that videotape in connection with this investigation.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to the particular exhibit that's in front of you marked as -- 345. 344.
Steve Robel: It's 345.
Mr. Sneddon: 345. Did you review that.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that a portion of the videotape that was taken by the person who accompanied you at the time that you folks executed the search warrant --
Steve Robel: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sneddon: -- on the 18th.
Steve Robel: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sneddon: And is it an accurate depiction of the sound that you heard when you entered Mr. Jackson's bedroom suite.
Steve Robel: Yes.
The Court: Cross-examine.
Mr. Sanger: That's my witness, if that's all right.
Mr. Sneddon: No further questions, I guess I should have said, Your Honor.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Sergeant Robel, at the time -- let's start with this. 345 is a snippet, as it were, from a many-hour-long video; is that correct.
Steve Robel: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: And that little snippet was selected today, or for today's proceedings, by you; is that right. Or was it selected by somebody else.
Steve Robel: This was off of a CD.
Mr. Sanger: Who selected it.
Steve Robel: I did and Detective Bonner.
Mr. Sanger: You did.
Steve Robel: And Detective Bonner.
Mr. Sanger: And Detective Bonner.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: So you went through to find a part of that CD where you might hear a bell.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. At the time that you were going through the residence when this tape was actually being made, you were not listening for that bell, were you.
Steve Robel: No, we weren't.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. You were walking through, and you were -- this was your first opportunity to go inside Mr. Jackson's bedroom suite; is that right.
Steve Robel: As -- under a circumstance of a protective sweep, yes.
Mr. Sanger: In other words, you started your search by going through the house and making sure that there was nobody in the rooms, and making sure you knew where everything was; is that right.
Steve Robel: Exactly. And making sure that if there were people in the rooms, we would bring them downstairs and centrally locate them, yes. Safety purposes.
Mr. Sanger: And the filming was going on at that time.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you had never been in Mr. Jackson's bedroom suite before that time; is that correct.
Steve Robel: No, I hadn't.
Mr. Sanger: So you were looking around. You were vigilant to see if there was anybody in there. You were doing your job at that point, correct.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So you weren't really listening for that bell.
Steve Robel: I wasn't. Not actively, no.
Mr. Sanger: And the reason you found this part of the tape is, you went back to listen to the tape, and you and Detective Bonner found a place where you heard something about the bell; is that correct.
Steve Robel: That's incorrect.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Well, let's move on.
The Court: Let's take a break.
Mr. Sanger: Let's take a break and move on.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Go ahead, Counsel.
Mr. Sanger: May I proceed. Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Sanger: Sergeant Robel, this particular tape we're talking about, 345, was not made for the express purpose of representing how this bell sounded inside of Mr. Jackson's room when the bell went off, was it.
Steve Robel: No, you are correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And the equipment that was used, the sound-recording -- it's a video; it's part of a videotape, right.
Steve Robel: I believe so, yes.
Mr. Sanger: And the sound-recording device that was used, are you familiar with that particular device.
Steve Robel: I'm really not.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Do you know if it measures the decibel level of the sounds that it's recording.
Steve Robel: No, I don't believe so.
Mr. Sanger: And this particular tape doesn't preserve in any way the decibel levels of the sounds that it's recording, does it.
Steve Robel: I don't believe so.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, you've listened to this carefully, I take it, this 345; is that right.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And it is -- it is, in part, a scene where you are talking with a gentleman about the key pad, and getting the correct combination to go into the suite of rooms that we've described as Michael Jackson's bedroom suite, the first floor, second floor, that area, correct.
Steve Robel: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: So you're talking to him, he's giving some instructions. And in the background, if you listen, you can hear the bell ringing, is that correct, while you're still in the hallway.
Steve Robel: Up by the key pad, I believe you're correct, yes.
Mr. Sanger: In other words, I'm talking about, you reviewed this --
Steve Robel: Right.
Mr. Sanger: -- trying to remember what this shows. Okay.
Steve Robel: Right.
Mr. Sanger: This particular 345. You start to hear a fairly faint bell as you're standing in the hallway before you go through the door, correct. You start to hear on this tape --
Steve Robel: I just need clarification. When you talk about the door, are you talking about the first set of doors that we're going through going down the hallway, or talking about the double doors to Michael's bedroom.
Mr. Sanger: The double doors to Michael's bedroom, what we're calling Michael's bedroom. This is where you have the first floor and you go back and there's a second floor, right.
Steve Robel: Okay. The second floor I'm familiar with inside his bedroom, yes.
Mr. Sanger: So we're talking about going through the double doors that lead you down three or four steps into a living room area, correct.
Steve Robel: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then behind that is the door and the stairway to a second floor; is that correct.
Steve Robel: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So we're at those double doors. You're in this video that you have reviewed, Exhibit 345, you and some other officers are up there at or near this front double door area that goes into this living room; is that right.
Steve Robel: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And the cameraman -- I was going to move back, but then you wouldn't be able to hear me, or somebody wouldn't -- the cameraman is standing back a few paces behind all of you; is that correct.
Steve Robel: I believe so. I don't know exactly where he was. But he was behind me, yes.
Mr. Sanger: And the microphone, to pick up the sound, is on his camera; is that correct.
Steve Robel: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: Didn't have a boom mike or somebody else wasn't miked in this situation.
Steve Robel: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And when you reviewed this, at some point you start to hear the dinging of the bell that's fairly faint from the cameraman's position in the hallway; is that correct.
Steve Robel: Where I heard it was when I was standing at the key pad. That's when I first heard it.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And I'm talking about this -- what this depicts.
Steve Robel: Right.
Mr. Sanger: This depicts sound picked up from this cameraman back in the hallway, and the bell rings about 12 times; is that correct.
Steve Robel: I didn't count them, but it was more than once, yes.
Mr. Sanger: It was more than three.
Steve Robel: Right.
Mr. Sanger: And it was about 12, was it not, sir.
Steve Robel: If -- I would say it was approximately that, yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And as the cameraman -- as you come in, and you walk down the few steps into the living room area, you then make -- you start to walk towards the door that goes up the stairway to Mr. Jackson's bedroom; is that correct.
Steve Robel: I believe so.
Mr. Sanger: And just as you get to his door, that's pretty much where this tape ends; is that right.
Steve Robel: I think so, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And as you're getting to his door, the cameraman is just starting to walk into the room and down the stairs, into this living room area down the stairs, correct.
Steve Robel: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And the sound is becoming louder, the sound of the bell is becoming louder just as the tape ends; is that correct.
Steve Robel: Really didn't pay attention as far as whether it was becoming louder or not. I mean, I could hear it, and I was in front. When I was viewing that, I didn't determine whether it was louder or fainter.
Mr. Sanger: In other words, I understand what -- your recollection of what really happened when you were there is, but what this depicts is a cameraman several paces behind a group of three officers and a civilian; is that correct.
Steve Robel: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And your group, at least the three officers, move into the downstairs, and move towards the door to Mr. Jackson's stairway and his upper bedroom, right.
Steve Robel: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And the cameraman is still back -- he's behind you, moving up.
Steve Robel: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And the sound is actually louder as you get closer to that bedroom door; isn't that correct.
Steve Robel: I don't know. I don't know until I hear that again. I mean, I viewed that two or three times, but I never really determined whether it was louder or not.
Mr. Sanger: I have no further questions.
The Court: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: The objection stands.
The Court: You may step down. Bring the other witness in.
Mr. Sneddon: Wait. I have a question.
The Court: All right.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Sergeant Robel, with regard to the bell system itself, is that laser-activated, to your knowledge.
Steve Robel: To my knowledge, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: So that every time somebody passes it, it sets it off again.
Steve Robel: That is correct.
Mr. Sneddon: So when Mr. Sanger asked you if you heard it go 12 times in a row, every time one of the people connected with the walk-through went through, it would go off again.
Steve Robel: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object and move to strike. That is a leading question and --
The Court: Overruled. You may step down. I'm going to allow the exhibit to go in. Bring the witness in.
Bailiff Cortez: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: You may be seated. You're still under oath.
Message: GAVIN-ANTON ARVIZO Having been previously sworn, resumed the stand and testified further as follows:
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: We're activating the disk, Your Honor. It's --
The Bailiff: Are you playing it out of your computer.
The Court: Do you need “Input 1”.
Mr. Auchincloss: Your Honor, we'd ask for “Input 4”. Thank you.
The Court: “Input 4”.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yeah. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, People's Exhibit 345, was played for the Court and jury.)
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION Continued BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Gavin, did you hear the chime go off.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that the chime that went off when you were visiting Neverland Valley Ranch.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, I want to ask you a couple more questions and then we'll move on to another subject, okay. But I want to ask you a little bit about some of the drinking that you did at the ranch.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know what the term “passed out” means.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell the jury what that means.
Gavin Arvizo: When you, like, lay down and you, like, go to sleep and you sleep for a long time and you sleep pretty hard.
Mr. Sneddon: During the time that you were at the ranch and you drank alcohol with the defendant, Mr. Jackson, did you ever pass out.
Gavin Arvizo: Maybe once or twice. But I don't think I really ever -- well, when I'd go to sleep, I would usually sleep pretty hard, but I don't know about, like, just sitting somewhere and just (indicating); you know what I mean.
Mr. Sneddon: I guess. I wouldn't admit it even if I did. Did you ever get sick.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: How did you feel when you got sick.
Gavin Arvizo: Felt like -- my stomach hurt a lot. I don't think I ever really threw up, though. But, like, I felt, like, nauseated.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. We're going to move on to another subject now, if we can, and I'm going to show you a couple more exhibits. And I'm going to show them to counsel first, so just give me a moment.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I'm going to hand you an eight-by-ten piece of paper, and ask you if you recognize the notes, that particular exhibit.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that your handwriting.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you wrote it.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now I'm going to hand you an exhibit marked as 347 for identification purposes. Do you recognize that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And whose handwriting is that.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael's. It looks like Mike -- yeah, it's Michael's.
Mr. Sneddon: And that particular exhibit, 347, was that something that was given to you at one time by Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Your Honor, I'm going to ask the Court's permission to put these on the Elmo, and ask the witness some questions about them, and I move that they be admitted into evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: They're admitted.
The Bailiff: You need to take it off “Black Screen”.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Gavin, I'm going to ask you to look at the first two at the top, and the note makes reference to a trip to Florida. Do you see that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Have you ever been to Florida with Mr. Jackson on more than one occasion.
Gavin Arvizo: No. Only went there once.
Mr. Sneddon: Just the one you testified to.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you write this note. Do you recall when it was you actually wrote this note to Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: No. But I think it was like toward the beginning -- like maybe a week or two after we came back from Miami.
Mr. Sneddon: Was the time that you flew to Miami with Mr. Carter the first time you were ever on the plane.
Gavin Arvizo: Mr. Carter.
Mr. Sneddon: Tucker, I'm sorry.
Gavin Arvizo: Chris Tucker.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: That was -- I mean, when I flew to Oakland with him to the Raider game --
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: -- that was, like, the first time I was ever in a plane.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: And this is the first time I was ever on a plane with Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Oh, okay. All right. Now we're going to show the other exhibit, People's 346 -- 347, I'm sorry. Well, and the last part of the exhibit, 346, do you recognize that.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, not really. But I think I wrote that.
Mr. Sneddon: Looks like your handwriting, does it not.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Or does it.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, kind of.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's put up 347. Now, when the exhibit says, “I want you to have a great time in Florida. I'm very happy to be your Daddy”, now, do you recall when it was Mr. Jackson gave you this particular note.
Gavin Arvizo: No. It was probably around the time that I wrote him those notes. I think -- I think Frank gave me those notes. Or, no, I don't think Frank. I think somebody gave me those notes because Michael was busy, and he gave me those notes from Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever discuss them with Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Sneddon: But you recognize the handwriting as being his.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. You can take that down.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, in the exhibit, 347, it's signed by Mr. Jackson as “dad”, and in the exhibit he makes reference to being your “daddy”.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Had you -- had Mr. Jackson ever called you -- asked you -- strike that. Had Mr. Jackson ever used the word “daddy” to you prior to the time he wrote this note to you.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. I would call him “dad” sometimes, because I don't really have, like, a set dad at that time; you know what I mean.
Mr. Sneddon: So how long do you think it was between you and Mr. Jackson that you were calling him “dad”.
Gavin Arvizo: When I was up there.
Mr. Sneddon: Up where.
Gavin Arvizo: After Miami, like a couple weeks after Miami, he started calling me “son”, and I would call him “dad”.
Mr. Sneddon: So that was a fairly usual thing between the two of you.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: At some point in time, did you participate in a taped interview other than the one with Mr. Bashir.
Gavin Arvizo: It wasn't really an interview. It was, like, where -- I don't know what you would refer to, but there was one time when he taped me carrying me across a bridge. I don't know if you're talking about that, but --
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. You were filmed -- and was this when you had cancer.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you were filmed in that particular piece, did you ever see that piece.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: When did you see it for the first time.
Gavin Arvizo: We showed it to Chris. And then when he showed it to Chris, that's when I saw it.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, do you know an individual by the name of Hamid.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Where did you meet Hamid for the first time.
Gavin Arvizo: At -- I'm not sure. I think he was the guy that filmed Michael carrying me across the bridge, but I'm not sure.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. The time after you came back from Miami -- all right.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- and you were at the ranch, did you ever meet Hamid there.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Tell us about -- where were you when you met him.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. But I was somewhere on the ranch, because I remember he drove us to his house.
Mr. Sneddon: He drove you to his house.
Gavin Arvizo: From Neverland.
Mr. Sneddon: And who is you.
Gavin Arvizo: It was me, my mom, my brother and my sister.
Mr. Sneddon: And you went to his house. Do you remember where he lived.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember how long it took to get there.
Gavin Arvizo: Two hours, probably.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you got there, what did you do.
Gavin Arvizo: They had this camera set up and like this big sheet thing that was coming down. Well, actually, the first thing, I went there, he had some video games, and I started playing his video games. And then, I don't know, they waited for some people to come, or whatever, and then they came.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember who the people were you were waiting for.
Gavin Arvizo: Dieter.
Mr. Sneddon: Anybody else you remember.
Gavin Arvizo: I think it was Vinnie. We were waiting for Vinnie, too.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that the first time you ever met Vinnie, or had you met him before that.
Gavin Arvizo: I think that was the first time I ever met Vinnie.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember anybody else arriving. Let me ask it this way: Did Vinnie come alone or was he with somebody.
Gavin Arvizo: I think he might have been with Frank. I'm not too sure.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, during the time that you were there, did an interview take place or a filming of some kind take place.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And who was doing the filming.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe it was Hamid.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall about what time it was when the filming started.
Gavin Arvizo: It was really late at night. It probably started like around 11:00 -- 10:00, 11:00 or midnight, one of those, around there, because I remember being really, really tired while I was doing it.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, prior to the time that you participated in that interview at Hamid's house -- okay.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: -- had anybody ever told you what to say on that interview.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And who was that.
Gavin Arvizo: Dieter.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did Dieter say to you. And it's offered under 1223, Your Honor.
The Court: I'll admit this testimony conditionally. The objection is noted.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection noted, Your Honor.
Gavin Arvizo: Dieter would say -- like he was telling us -- you know, remember how, like, Michael told me what to say in the Martin Bashir thing.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: Like, Dieter was kind of doing the same thing. Like, he was telling us - me, my mom and my brother, my sister - what to say on this tape thing for -- they said it was like a rebuttal tape, or something like that.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did he tell you to say.
Gavin Arvizo: He said that, like, tell them -- tell him, like, Michael helped us a lot and, like, cured me from cancer practically, and stuff like that.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever see anything written down about what you were to say.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. They had like -- well, it was -- I don't think it was really -- well, they had, like, this paper with a bunch of questions and stuff, but -- you know.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you -- did you get a chance to see the questions before you went on the film.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you go over the answers to those questions before you went on to film.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, kinda. It wasn't really like we sat down for an hour and was, like, talking and stuff. It was kind of a brief thing. He wanted us to say this and this and that; you know what I mean.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. At the time that you participated in this particular video at Hamid's house late in the evening or -- what was your attitude towards Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I liked him a lot. I was like -- he was like my best friend in the whole world.
Mr. Sneddon: Still at this point.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, on that particular video -- you've had a chance to see it since the time it was made, have you not.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Was everything that you said on the video true.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Sneddon: What parts of that video do you recall as not being true.
Gavin Arvizo: I mean -- because, like, I said stuff like that Michael helped me a lot during -- while I had cancer. And, like, really he wasn't really there all that much.
Mr. Sneddon: Anything else.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, I'm not too sure. It was a while ago.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not too sure. It was a while ago.
Mr. Sneddon: That's the one that sticks out in your mind.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: After the, what you call the rebuttal tape was filmed that night, do you recall where you went.
Gavin Arvizo: I think Vinnie and Frank took us to, like, an inn.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall what you did the next day.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, no. Not really.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you ever recall having a meeting with some social workers.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh. Yeah. It was --
Mr. Sneddon: When did that occur.
Gavin Arvizo: It was in the East -- no, no, where we used to live on St. Andrews.
Mr. Sneddon: Where you used to live on St. Andrews with who.
Gavin Arvizo: Jay.
Mr. Sneddon: Who else lived there with you.
Gavin Arvizo: My mom, my brother.
Mr. Sneddon: Your sister.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think she lived there. I think she was at my grandma's.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, in -- just so the ladies and gentlemen of the jury can understand, in relationship to the Hamid rebuttal film that you've talked about - okay. - was the meeting with the social workers before or after that.
Gavin Arvizo: It was -- I'm pretty sure it was after.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember who was present during that interview.
Gavin Arvizo: The social worker one.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah.
Gavin Arvizo: It was me, my brother, my mom. Azja was there, Chris's girlfriend.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: And the social worker ladies. And I think Vinnie was there. But I don't think he was upstairs. I'm not too sure. And there was this guy in a blue shirt.
Mr. Sneddon: Describe the guy in the blue shirt for us.
Gavin Arvizo: I think he had like black hair and light skin, kind of like me. And he was wearing, like, dress pants and dress shoes and, like, a blue shirt.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you describe what he was like physically.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, probably like five-foot-eleven or something like that. And about my body mass, but, like, just bigger.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know who that person was. Did he introduce himself to you.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you present when he arrived.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you hear him identify himself at any time to anybody.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you at any time while you were there see a tape-recorder that morning.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you see a tape-recorder.
Gavin Arvizo: I saw it on our kitchen counter -- yeah, on our kitchen counter.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you ever see anybody pick up the tape-recorder.
Gavin Arvizo: I think I saw my mom pick it up, or -- yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you ever see your mom discuss talking to this other individual you've described as the --
Gavin Arvizo: I saw him and my mom go into another room where my mom and my stepdad sleep, slept. And I don't know, they were talking in there, I guess.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see where the tape-recorder was at the time they went into the bedroom.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I think it might have been in my mom's hand, but I'm not sure.
Mr. Sneddon: When you actually had the interview with the social workers, did everybody remain in there during the interview.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I think Brad left or -- yeah, that's his name, Brad, because I was just thinking, like, Brad, because -- wasn't it Brad Miller.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm not testifying.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, okay. All right.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. So somebody left.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And who was left during the interview.
Gavin Arvizo: Me, my mom, my brother, and my sister, I think.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall the questions that the social workers asked you.
Gavin Arvizo: They asked me about Michael and --
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember what you told them.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: What did you tell them.
Gavin Arvizo: I told them that he was a nice guy, and that -- like the stuff that we said on the rebuttal tape.
Mr. Sneddon: Pretty much the same stuff.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember -- did they ask you whether or not you slept in a bed with Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did you say.
Gavin Arvizo: I said that we do now, because we were over at the ranch, but I told them that nothing happens when we're on the bed.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Gavin Arvizo: I told them nothing, like, bad happens.
Mr. Sneddon: Was that the truth.
Gavin Arvizo: At the time, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: After the interview with the social workers, do you remember where you went.
Gavin Arvizo: I think we went back up to Neverland with Azja.
Mr. Sneddon: And by “we”, who do you mean.
Gavin Arvizo: Me, my brother, my sister.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you went back up to the ranch, when was the next time you left, if you recall.
Gavin Arvizo: Left from the ranch.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah. Do you remember going anywhere after you got back up there from the social workers.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you at any time ever go shopping with Frank or Vinnie.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Tell the jury where -- where that occurred.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, we went to a mall, and they took us to a place called Anchor Blue.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did you do at Anchor Blue.
Gavin Arvizo: They bought us clothes because we didn't have any clothes. We didn't have that many clothes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, why were they buying you clothes.
Gavin Arvizo: Because they didn't really want us to go back to our apartment, so they had us buy clothes from there.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at the time that you went to Anchor Blue and they bought you these clothes, where were you staying at that point in time.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe I was staying -- yeah, that's when I was staying at the Cal -- bleh. The Calabasas Inn place. The inn in Calabasas.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And who was there with you.
Gavin Arvizo: My mom, my brother, and my sister, and Frank and Vinnie.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, were Frank and Vinnie in the same room as you.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall where their room was, if you know.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I believe -- I'm pretty sure it was down the hall.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at the time that you went to the Calabasas Inn and you went shopping with Frank and Vinnie, did you go any other places.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where.
Gavin Arvizo: They went to get us visas and passports.
Mr. Sneddon: And why were you getting visas and passports.
Gavin Arvizo: Because they said they were going to take us to Brazil.
Mr. Sneddon: When did you first learn that you were going to go to Brazil.
Gavin Arvizo: From Dieter.
Mr. Sneddon: And when did you first learn from Vinnie and Frank Tyson that they were going to take you out and buy you clothes and things.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't remember. It was probably a few days after when I found out from Dieter. But I'm not sure.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you actually go with them when the passports and the visas were obtained.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And were both Vinnie and Frank with you.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe so. I think Vinnie was there. I don't think Frank was there.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, what was your understanding about when you were going to go to Brazil.
Gavin Arvizo: A few weeks after we got our visas.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you, in the presence of the defendant in this case, Mr. Jackson, ever have a conversation about the trip to Brazil.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And who else was present during that conversation.
Gavin Arvizo: Frank.
Mr. Sneddon: Frank Tyson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did that conversation take place.
Gavin Arvizo: In his room.
Mr. Sneddon: “In his room” --
Gavin Arvizo: Michael's room.
Mr. Sneddon: And which part of the room in his house.
Gavin Arvizo: On his bed. Like, Frank was on his knees, like on -- his hands were over the bed like that (indicating).
Mr. Sneddon: And where were you.
Gavin Arvizo: Me and Michael were laying on the bed.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Tell us about the conversation.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: How did the subject of Brazil come up.
Gavin Arvizo: Frank was getting angry because my mom didn't want to go. And then Frank was yelling because he was, like, “Oh, we have a tutor over there and we still haven't left, and we ended up paying for a tutor”, or something like that. And then Michael was -- he didn't really respond much, but he was, like, nodding his head, like --
Mr. Sneddon: You've nodded your head which way.
Gavin Arvizo: Up and down.
Mr. Sneddon: To you, what does that mean.
Gavin Arvizo: “Yeah”. “Yes”.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And how many times did you see Mr. Jackson nod his head up and down.
Gavin Arvizo: A few times.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Mr. Jackson ever say anything to you about going to Brazil.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: What did he say.
Gavin Arvizo: He said that we were going to go to Brazil and that we were going to have a good time.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember anything else Mr. Jackson said to you about that trip.
Gavin Arvizo: That he was going to come a week later after we got there.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, let's go back to the point that you were at Calabasas at the inn. Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you tell us that Frank and Vinnie were there; is that correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see any other people there that Frank and Vinnie knew. You just have to answer that “yes” or “no” first, and then I'll ask you the next question.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Did you see anybody in the lobby.
Gavin Arvizo: The lobby of the inn.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Sneddon: When you were at the Calabasas Inn, did you feel you were free to come and go as you pleased.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Why not.
Gavin Arvizo: Because they had our cards to our hotel -- to our room, or whatever.
Mr. Sneddon: Who did.
Gavin Arvizo: Vinnie and Frank had the cards, the key cards.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever try to go anywhere.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really, because even if we tried to go out in the hallway or anything, they would tell us to go back in our room.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Calls for speculation. Move to strike.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to need just a second. Can I go this way or -- excuse me, Mr. Oxman.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
Gavin Arvizo: Do you want me to take this stuff out.
Mr. Sneddon: No, that's all right. Just leave it in for right now. I've placed in front of you the exhibit book, and in that exhibit book is what we're calling Exhibit 260. Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize the piece of paper in front of you.
Gavin Arvizo: Kinda.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize the photograph of the person in that piece of paper.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember when it was that that photograph was taken, where it was taken.
Gavin Arvizo: I think it was when we were getting, like, our visas or our passports, or whatever like that.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, on that particular document, there was -- there's -- by your picture on the document is a signature line, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that your signature.
Gavin Arvizo: Right next to my name. Oh. Well, it's my name.
Mr. Sneddon: I know. But is that your signature.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you fill -- do you recall ever filling that application out.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember anybody ever telling you you were going to go to Italy or France.
Gavin Arvizo: No. They always told me I was going to go to Brazil.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, I want you to turn -- turn -- I put a little pink pad -- do you see it at the top.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Would you turn to that document. This is in 261.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: That's a document from the Brazilian consulate, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Like a -- yes.
Mr. Sneddon: I couldn't hear you.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And again, it has your photograph on it.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall ever filling out that application. Let me put it this way: Is that handwriting on the application yours.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember going to the Brazilian consulate.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall who you went with.
Gavin Arvizo: Vinnie.
Mr. Sneddon: Were there any other people present with you.
Gavin Arvizo: My mom, my brother, and my sister, I think.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. You can close that up, Gavin. You told us that you recall going to the shopping outlet, or a mall of some kind, to go to Anchor Blue.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall any other places that you went to buy clothes.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I think we just went to that place.
Mr. Sneddon: Were there times that anybody would buy things for you and bring them back to the room for you.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who did that.
Gavin Arvizo: I think it was -- I don't know. Probably Vinnie. They bought me some shoes.
Mr. Sneddon: Was this while you were at the Calabasas Inn.
Gavin Arvizo: No, this is up in Neverland.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Was there any times when you were at the Calabasas Inn where people would buy you things and bring them back, that you recall.
Gavin Arvizo: Maybe food once, but I'm not -- no.
Mr. Sneddon: But not clothes.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you have a suitcase with you.
Gavin Arvizo: For my clothes.
Mr. Sneddon: No, for going to Brazil.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't think so.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know what you were going to pack your stuff in.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, we came down there with a suitcase, but I don't think the suitcase was for us to go to Brazil, because I think we were going to go back up to Neverland, and later we were going to go to Brazil somewhere.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did you get the suitcase.
Gavin Arvizo: They bought us a suitcase.
Mr. Sneddon: Who's “they”.
Gavin Arvizo: Vinnie and Frank.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, after you come back from Calabasas - okay. - the trip that you told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury about, after you came back, did you go back to Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: After that, with Vinnie and them to get the visas and passports.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: And Mr. Jackson, was he there.
Gavin Arvizo: To Neverland. I don't think he was.
Mr. Sneddon: Did he come, at some point, after that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you sleep when Mr. Jackson -- after Calabasas, when Mr. Jackson was on the premises, where did you sleep.
Gavin Arvizo: When Michael Jackson was there.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah.
Gavin Arvizo: I would sleep in his room.
Mr. Sneddon: With who.
Gavin Arvizo: It would be me and my brother and Michael. And sometimes Aldo would sleep there, too.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there ever any times when there was just you and Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when, in relationship to when you came back to the ranch after the Calabasas trip, was that.
Gavin Arvizo: That was, like, toward the end, like when -- like maybe a month in relation to the end, where we finally left for good.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember leaving for good.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember how it was you left for good, what happened.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not too sure, but -- I'm not sure. I'm not too sure how we left, but I remember being there, and, like, Frank came down. I was trying to think. They were knocking on the door and stuff, and they left some stuff that we had with us up there in front of our door.
Mr. Sneddon: At your home.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: After you left.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that your suitcase.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. They bought us suitcases.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, after the time you came back from Calabasas, and before you left -- all right.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: -- were there any nights where there were just you and Mr. Jackson sleeping together.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And were there nights, after you came back from Calabasas and before you left, where you drank any alcoholic beverages.
Gavin Arvizo: Can you repeat -- I mean, with Michael or --
Mr. Sneddon: With anybody.
Gavin Arvizo: We would only really drink with Michael, so --
Mr. Sneddon: All right. So when you came back from Calabasas and Mr. Jackson was there, did you drink with him.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there ever an occasion when you were on the ranch -- I'm not talking about back when you were sick with cancer or when you were there with Chris Tucker, but from the time you came back from Miami till the time you left for the very last time --
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- okay. -- was there ever an occasion where you and Mr. Jackson were on the ranch at the same time that you didn't drink.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't think so, because it would usually be at nighttime when we would drink. And we'd rarely drink in the daytime. Sometimes, like while we were in his office, we'd usually drink some wine or whatever. But it was usually toward it was getting dark, and we would start running to the arcade, and played video games and drink and stuff. But every time Michael was there, we would drink.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay, Gavin. We're just going to do a little bit of cleanup work here. Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: I've handed you a photograph that's marked as People's Exhibit 188. Do you recognize that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Hang on just a second. We got some technical difficulties. We're not going to need the lights, Your Honor. I'm not going to.... Thank you. That's dark enough.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. 188, Gavin, do you see what that is.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. I'm sorry.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm not keeping you awake, am I. (Laughter.)
Gavin Arvizo: All I need is a pillow.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. 188, what is that.
Gavin Arvizo: It's the front door to Neverland. Or the front entrance to Neverland.
Mr. Sneddon: The front entrance for what at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Not Neverland. The main house at Neverland, sorry.
Mr. Sneddon: Mr. Jackson's house.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Why don't you turn that over. Now, what's the next photograph.
Gavin Arvizo: It's like you're in the hallway --
Mr. Sneddon: No, wait a minute. Go ahead.
Gavin Arvizo: You're like in the hallway to go to his room. And this is at the door.
Mr. Sneddon: The door to what.
Gavin Arvizo: The door that would like, if you opened it, the chimes rung.
Mr. Sneddon: And are you talking about the bedroom or the main room.
Gavin Arvizo: The bedroom. Well --
Mr. Sneddon: Downstairs or upstairs.
Gavin Arvizo: Downstairs.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Why don't you turn that over. And that's a picture of who.
Gavin Arvizo: Hamid.
Mr. Sneddon: And what number is that.
Gavin Arvizo: 29.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And the next picture is of.
Gavin Arvizo: Jesus Salas.
Mr. Sneddon: And that is No. 30.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Would you turn that over. Do you recognize those pictures of the people. And who's that and what number is it.
Gavin Arvizo: It's 19.
Mr. Sneddon: And who is that.
Gavin Arvizo: Vinnie.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes. So in your testimony here, the person you referred to as Vinnie, that's the person you were talking about.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Turn that over. And the next photograph.
Gavin Arvizo: That's the Country -- well, that's the inn that we stood at.
Mr. Sneddon: When you went shopping that time.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Turn that over now. What's the number on the next one. By the way, let's go back one, Gavin. I don't think I got the numbers. Is that 125.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. By “that”, I mean the Calabasas Inn photograph.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, let's go to the next one. And what number is that.
Gavin Arvizo: 99.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And what is that.
Gavin Arvizo: That's the arcade.
Mr. Sneddon: So, in your testimony when you were talking about going into the arcade down to the wine cellar, that's the building that you were talking about.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Why don't you turn that one over.
The Clerk: Judge, 99 hasn't been identified.
Mr. Sneddon: It hasn't.
The Clerk: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize that. Is that an accurate depiction of that photograph, 99.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, that's the side of the -- of the arcade, but the front entrance is, like, over here. Well, the entrance to the arcade is over here.
Mr. Sneddon: Let me have the photograph. Move that -- apparently 99 is not in evidence, Your Honor, the clerk tells us. And I've shown it to counsel, and I don't think he has any problem with it.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: Getting dangerous back here. The cords came up, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I have one other photograph I want to show you.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: This is 153, and it's in evidence.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: We're going to display that, Your Honor. There's going to be some testimony about it.
The Court: Do you need it on “1” or “4”.
Mr. Auchincloss: Could we have that on “1”, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Do you recognize what's up on the board.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: That's a copy of the photograph that you have in front of you, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, have you ever seen that mannequin before.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where was it the first time you saw it.
Gavin Arvizo: In Michael's room.
Mr. Sneddon: You're going to have to turn around and talk into that mike.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael's room.
The Court: Is that 153 that's on the screen.
Mr. Sneddon: It is, Your Honor. I apologize for that.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Where was it on the floor.
Gavin Arvizo: It was next to the computer on the floor.
Mr. Sneddon: Next to the computer on the floor.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, where was the computer located in Mr. Jackson's room.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, there's the bed, and then like at the foot of the bed, the computer was right there on -- near the -- it was like the railing. It was wood railing to the stairs.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall what kind of computer it was.
Gavin Arvizo: No. It was -- it was a desktop computer, but I don't know what kind it was. Like nobody used it, because it was --
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Gavin Arvizo: Nobody used it because it was bad, like it wasn't connected.
Mr. Sneddon: The computer that Mr. Jackson gave you, the one that you described as an Apple.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- was that a desktop or a laptop.
Gavin Arvizo: It was a laptop, the one that he gave me.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, directing your attention to the mannequin that's in the photograph in front of you - okay. - did you ever see Mr. Jackson do anything with that mannequin.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Tell us what he did.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, me and my brother were looking at the mannequin, and we started laughing at it because it was shaped funny, and then we showed Michael and he started laughing. And then he started acting like he was, like, having sex with the mannequin because it was shaped funny.
Mr. Sneddon: I couldn't hear you.
Gavin Arvizo: Because it was shaped funny.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. So what did he do with the mannequin.
Gavin Arvizo: He acted like he was humping it.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was he when he was doing that.
Gavin Arvizo: On the bed.
Mr. Sneddon: Where were you and your brother.
Gavin Arvizo: I was sitting on the bed and I think my brother might have been standing up.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, the time that you saw Mr. Jackson on the bed with the mannequin, do you recall whether that happened before or after you went to Calabasas.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not sure. It was probably before. But I'm not too sure.
Mr. Sneddon: But you remember the incident.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. We can take that down, if you'd like. I'm going to show an exhibit marked as 470.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: Ever seen that before.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where was it the first time you saw it.
Gavin Arvizo: It was next to, like, this -- it wasn't really a couch. Well, it felt like a couch, but -- it was like a one-person couch, and it had, like, this place where you could put your feet up --
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: -- that was, like, the same material, but it was like a little square cushion thing, and you put your feet up there.
Mr. Sneddon: And what -- what building was this.
Gavin Arvizo: This was in his room.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know what room it was.
Gavin Arvizo: It was in Michael's room. But when you walk in the door, like to the right would be the door to go up to his bed, and then if you walk in there and you walk this way and then go to the right inside this room, and you'd walk and there's a couch thing.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there anything else in that room.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, there was like a sink with a bunch of his, like, perfumes and colognes. And there was like a big mirror, like three-sided mirror. And then there was a rest room. And then there's a big kind of tub, but kind of looks like a Jacuzzi, though.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you first saw the suitcase, where was it in that room.
Gavin Arvizo: It was next to -- it was to the left of that couch thing.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you ever see Mr. Jackson pick up the Exhibit 470.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, like I was hanging out with him in there, and he was like putting on his makeup or something, I don't know. And then he -- he grabbed the -- grabbed the suitcase, and then he told me -- he told me it was Frank's. And he showed me, he was like, “This is” --
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Well, what did he show you.
Gavin Arvizo: He was, like, “Look at the” -- “Look at this stuff. Frank's stinking a-s-s”. Frank's stinking -- it was S- -- Frank's stinking ass.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. What was inside the suitcase.
Gavin Arvizo: Adult materials.
Mr. Sneddon: And how many did you look at with Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, he showed me just one -- like he showed me, and there was this girl in there and then he put it away.
Mr. Sneddon: And how was the girl.
Gavin Arvizo: She had her legs spread open, and her vagina was, like, showing.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Did you ever see that suitcase again.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where.
Gavin Arvizo: We had it -- like, we had it up in his -- near his bed, and then we were looking at all the stuff.
Mr. Sneddon: Who was “we”.
Gavin Arvizo: Me, my brother and Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall, where in the bedroom was the suitcase when you first saw it that time.
Gavin Arvizo: The first time I saw it, it was in the rest room kind of thing. And then the second time we -- I don't know if we brought it up there or, like, Michael brought it up there or something. I don't know. But it was up next to his bed. And we were all going through the thing and we were making fun of Frank.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you look at the magazines.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: How many magazines do you think you saw.
Gavin Arvizo: We saw, like, practically everything, but there was a few we didn't look at.
Mr. Sneddon: How much time do you figure you were looking at all those things.
Gavin Arvizo: 30 minutes to an hour, probably.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Mr. Jackson make any comments during the time -- other than the ones you've talked about, any other comments that he made at any of the photographs or the magazines.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really. We just were, like, making fun of Frank.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, with regard to the first time you saw it downstairs - okay. - in that room that you described where he puts his makeup on, things like that, do you remember whether that occurred before or after Calabasas.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, while we were in there. That was like --
Mr. Sneddon: The first time.
Gavin Arvizo: Me and Michael only. When he showed me the thing I said about Frank.
Mr. Sneddon: Right.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay. That was like the same day that we got back -- no. Yeah, the same night we got back from Miami.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. What about the second incident where you were upstairs. When was that in relationship to Calabasas.
Gavin Arvizo: A few weeks -- a week later, probably, or two weeks.
Mr. Sneddon: So can you tell us whether that would be before or after Calabasas.
Gavin Arvizo: Before Calabasas.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there anything else in the suitcase that you saw other than magazines themselves.
Gavin Arvizo: There was, like, cut-out pieces of magazines.
Mr. Sneddon: What kind of cut-out pieces from the magazines.
Gavin Arvizo: Cut-out pieces of, like, girls taking a shower or, like, just girls naked.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Sneddon: I have another photograph I'm going to show you. It's 165. Would you take a look at that, please. Do you recognize that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What is that.
Gavin Arvizo: It's a telephone that, like, we would listen to, like, security guards talking to, like, their girlfriends and stuff.
Mr. Sneddon: How do you know that.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael showed me.
Mr. Sneddon: Showed you what.
Gavin Arvizo: How to, like -- because what you do, like when you see one of these lights flashing, it means that someone's on one of those lines, and then you push the line and you can hear them. But once you push it, you can't say anything because they can hear you. And then you push “mute” so they can't hear you, and then you can hear who they're talking to and what they're talking about and stuff.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, who showed you how to do that.
Gavin Arvizo: The first time Michael did.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, were you present with Mr. Jackson when he listened in on people's conversations.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: How many times.
Gavin Arvizo: We would do it a lot. Like, we would listen to security guards talking to their girlfriends.
Mr. Sneddon: You say “we”. Who do you mean by “we”.
Gavin Arvizo: Me and Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Were there any times when you overheard conversations of your mother.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: How many times.
Gavin Arvizo: Like three times. Or once or twice. I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: Were those with Mr. Jackson or were those by yourself.
Gavin Arvizo: I think they were with Michael. And then maybe one time I was by myself listening.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever have a conversation with Mr. Tyson about overhearing conversations.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Offered under 1223, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: What did he tell you.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Sneddon: Wait just a second. Let the --
The Court: I'll admit it for limited purposes.
Mr. Sneddon: Go ahead.
Gavin Arvizo: Wait, can you repeat the question.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah. What did Mr. Tyson tell you.
Gavin Arvizo: About listening to my mom.
Mr. Sneddon: Listening to conversations, yes.
Gavin Arvizo: He just told me that my mom -- just told me about him listening to my mom's phone calls talking with Jay.
Mr. Sneddon: Did he tell you how many occasions he'd overheard or listened to your mom's conversations.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay. And leading.
The Court: Overruled. And I'll again admit it for the conditional use. I said “limited use”, but I meant conditional use. Go ahead.
Gavin Arvizo: He told me about my mom and how he would listen to him, and he would kind of -- was talking to me about it kind of angrily, about my mom talking to Jay and saying she wanted to leave, and stuff like that.
Mr. Sneddon: That's what Mr. Tyson told you.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. You can put that photograph down. Just turn it over. Okay. Now, while you were at Mr. Jackson's ranch, did you ever watch a movie called -- it had a title in it that -- in Spanish, with subtitles.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember the name of the movie.
Gavin Arvizo: No, but it was about like a 1940, or whatever, those years. And it was about a ghost, and like a little kid that got killed, and an older man killed him and put him in, like, this pool where there was a lot of water. And then the little kid was trying to, like, warn, like, all the other orphans in the orphanage, that's where it was, and that they were all going to die, or something like that. It was all in Spanish.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you watch that movie on more than one occasion while you were at Mr. Jackson's ranch.
Gavin Arvizo: I think we saw it twice. We really liked it.
Mr. Sneddon: Pardon.
Gavin Arvizo: We really liked it.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did -- while you were watching that movie on any occasion, did you see Mr. Jackson enter the room or was he watching the movie with you.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I'm pretty sure the first time, we were watching the movie with him.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: But I don't really remember him walking up there while we were watching that. I thought the second time, he was watching with us, too. I'm not too sure.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever have any conversations with Mr. Jackson with regard to whether it was natural to be naked or nude.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading. Move to strike.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: Ask that the prosecutor be admonished.
Mr. Sneddon: Well --
The Court: Ask another question, please.
Mr. Sneddon: Was -- was there ever any occasion where you had -- well, was there ever an occasion where you saw anything with regard to Mr. Jackson coming up the stairs.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sneddon: And where were you when you saw Mr. Jackson coming up the stairs.
Gavin Arvizo: Me and my brother were laying on the bed.
Mr. Sneddon: And what were you doing.
Gavin Arvizo: I think we were just laying there.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And when Mr. Jackson came up the stairs, did you notice anything.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, he was naked.
Mr. Sneddon: When you say “naked”, what do you mean by that.
Gavin Arvizo: Like, not clothes on.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Mr. Jackson do or say anything at that point in time.
Gavin Arvizo: No, he just ran up and just got something and went back down.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
Gavin Arvizo: I think he just ran up there and got something and went back downstairs.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall him saying anything at that point.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: And what was your reaction to what you saw.
Gavin Arvizo: Nothing. It was just kind of like -- me and my brother were kind of like, “eeuuww”; you know what I mean.
Mr. Sneddon: Kind of like what.
Gavin Arvizo: “Eeuuww”, like we never really saw a grown man, like, naked before.
Mr. Sneddon: I want to show you one other exhibit, if we can.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I have a brown paper bag that's been marked as 348 for identification purposes. And I've shown it to Counsel. And with Counsel's permission and the Court's permission, I'd like to open the package.
Mr. Mesereau: May I just see what's in there, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you want to open it, Tom.
Mr. Mesereau: I can stand there while you open it.
Mr. Sneddon: No, we can do it down here.
The Bailiff: (To a person in the audience) Sit down.
The Court: 348.
Mr. Sneddon: 348. Is it all right if I take it out of the bag to show it to the witness.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, for the record, there was a brown paper bag which has the number “348” on it, and I've broken the seal on the bag, the evidence seal, with counsel, and we've removed from the bag a brown -- “a brown”. A blue bag. And I'm going to show the blue blag (sic) to the witness at this point.
Gavin Arvizo: Blue blag.
Mr. Sneddon: Blue. Don't make fun of me. This is a tough job.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Okay. Gavin, first of all, with regard to the blue bag, do you recognize the blue bag.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you see that blue bag the first time.
Gavin Arvizo: That was the case that my brother's sleeping bag came from. It was in -- or -- yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: It was your brother's, Star.
Gavin Arvizo: That was a case where my brother's sleeping bag was in.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, from the blue bag, we took out a number of items, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recognize those.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what are those.
Gavin Arvizo: They're like my seventh grade or eighth grade -- I'm not sure. They're like my junior high school books that I used for school.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you have those books with you at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall where they were at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: They were -- I think they were -- we left them in a rest room on the way to Michael's room.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, so -- now, the exhibits that we have just -- that you just talked about, you recognize all of them; is that correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Your Honor, I'd like to have them admitted into evidence, 348.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: They're admitted. Number 348 is admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And then I'd like to show on the board with the lights, Your Honor, some of the exhibits.
The Court: All right. Which input do you need.
Mr. Auchincloss: “Input 1”, Your Honor.
The Court: Are you ready.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Gavin, with regard to one of the items that was taken out of 348, do you recognize that, the one that's on the board right now.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury what that is.
Gavin Arvizo: That's my workbook that I had for English and junior high school.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, let's go to the next one, so we get them all identified. Do you recognize that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what class was that from.
Gavin Arvizo: Before I left -- it was an English class also. It was like Black Education Month.
Mr. Sneddon: I don't think we can hear you. You're going to have to turn around and --
Gavin Arvizo: Before we had left to go to Neverland, I think it was like Black History Month, and then our teacher wanted us to write about a black person, to write an essay or something.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever do that.
Gavin Arvizo: I never had time to. I never really did, because we came up here, came up to Neverland.
Mr. Sneddon: So you didn't do the assignment while you were at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Is there any other books or materials there.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's look at the next one. That's just the inside of the first one.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, that's the inside. And that's my teacher, Miss Super.
Mr. Sneddon: Who was that.
Gavin Arvizo: Miss Super.
Mr. Sneddon: And what are those on the board there.
Gavin Arvizo: Those -- those are, like, the assignments that they gave me to do.
Mr. Sneddon: Go ahead.
Gavin Arvizo: Because my mom asked -- or I don't know who. I think my mom asked Frank and Vinnie to do it, to get my homework that I needed to do.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And those materials were contained in a little -- like a manila envelope.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Inside of Exhibit 348.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Thank you. Now, there's one last book up on the board, if you could. Do you recognize that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you see a book in the materials in 348.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. What is that.
Gavin Arvizo: It's because in our program, the United States Naval Sea Cadets, I was going to become an E-3, and --
Mr. Sneddon: A what.
Gavin Arvizo: E-3.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: So I was going to move up rank, because I was E-2, and you either have to study and pass a test either from a seaman book, an airman book, or a fireman book. And I chose airman, because I like planes and jets and stuff. So I wanted to study an airman and pass the test, and so I took it up there and I figured I would study.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you do it.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I studied and then passed the test later.
Mr. Sneddon: How long have you been in that program.
Gavin Arvizo: I've been in it for -- since -- well, I joined the Navy League when I was 12, and then I went to boot camp. So I've been in it for maybe three years.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did you go to boot camp.
Gavin Arvizo: I went to sea cadet boot camp in Port Huenema in Ventura, I think.
Mr. Sneddon: How long was that.
Gavin Arvizo: Two weeks long.
Mr. Sneddon: Have you been to any other boot camps associated with the military training.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where.
Gavin Arvizo: I went to one in Norfolk, Virginia.
Mr. Sneddon: And when was that.
Gavin Arvizo: It was during the winter.
Mr. Sneddon: And how long was that.
Gavin Arvizo: It was also two weeks long, or more like ten days long. It was petty officer leadership academy. I wanted to become a petty officer, and I wanted to do that so I could gain leadership ability before I went to pass the test for petty officer. So I went to that program, that class, for -- that training for two weeks, and I gained a lot of leadership skills.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, I just have one last question. With regard to this program that you were in, how often do you have to go to participate in it.
Gavin Arvizo: It's two times a month.
Mr. Sneddon: On what days.
Gavin Arvizo: Every third and fourth Saturday of the month.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I think we can take that down. Counsel. Your Honor, I have a clear plastic bag which contains an orangish bottle inside. I've shown it to counsel. It's 349 for identification purposes. And I'd like to show it to the witness at this time.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What's that.
Gavin Arvizo: The doctor would sometimes order a 24-hour-period urine test. And so I would have to -- because of my kidney and, like, stuff like that. And so what you do is, you wake up in the morning, and then you start your first pee in the bottle, and then you -- all the pees on, until that time again. So, like, say you wake up at eight o'clock. You say, “Okay, this is my morning pee”. I'm going to go pee in this bottle. And then every pee you have to do till eight o'clock the next morning you do in the bottle.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there ever a time when you were at Neverland Ranch where you had to pee in the bottle.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And take it to a doctor.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that the type of bottle that you used, that you had to use.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: At any time while you were on the ranch, Neverland Valley Ranch, did you ever have a discussion with Mr. Jackson about you having to pee in that bottle.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when was that discussion; do you recall.
Gavin Arvizo: It was down in the cellar, and I was afraid that --
Mr. Sneddon: I mean, let me just ask a few more questions before I ask you what was said. Okay. You told us it was in the cellar.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who else was there.
Gavin Arvizo: It was only me and my -- me and Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And you're in the cellar. And can you tell us whether it's daytime or nighttime.
Gavin Arvizo: I think it was nighttime. Or early night. So it was probably like 7:00 or 8:00.
Mr. Sneddon: And how did the subject of the urine specimen come up, or urine bottle come up, peeing in the bottle.
Gavin Arvizo: I was afraid that the alcohol would show up in my urine, so I asked Michael, I told him, “Michael, I think the alcohol might show in my urine”.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; calls for a narrative; nonresponsive. Move to strike.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. So you're talking to Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And now -- and you already told us that you told him about the test. Tell us the rest of the conversation, what you told Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: I told him that I was afraid that the alcohol was going to show up in my urine when they got the test. So I asked him, “What should I do”. And then he said, “Doo-Doo, just don't take the test”.
Mr. Sneddon: He said what.
Gavin Arvizo: “Doo-Doo, just don't take the test”.
Mr. Sneddon: What do you mean, “Doo-Doo”.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, he called a lot of kids “Doo-Doo” or “Doo-Doo Head”.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you say anything back to Mr. Jackson when he told you, “Just don't take the test”.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I kind of told him I had to take the test. And he just said, “Don't take the test”. And then after that, I just kind of nodded my head and didn't say anything.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you do any drinking after that.
Gavin Arvizo: Like, we were already in the wine cellar and I had my glass poured.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, did you drink it.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Mr. Jackson drink.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at some point later, did you tell anybody that you had been drinking alcohol, other than Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Let me rephrase that question, because that's not a good question.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: At some point, did you tell somebody else that you'd been drinking alcohol in connection with the fact that you had to collect your pee in that bottle.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who was that.
Gavin Arvizo: It was my mom.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember where you were when you told your mom.
Gavin Arvizo: I was in Michael's room, and that phone with all the lines, I called my mom up.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know where Mr. Jackson was at the time you made the call.
Gavin Arvizo: He was upstairs on the bed.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you made the call to your mother, do you remember about what time it was.
Gavin Arvizo: Like four o'clock in the morning.
Mr. Sneddon: And when was it you were supposed to go to the doctor.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I was going to start the test that morning. And so the day after that, I guess.
Mr. Sneddon: How long -- did you tell your mother.
Gavin Arvizo: Well --
Mr. Sneddon: Let me go back. What did you say to your mother.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, I called her, and I told her, “Well, mom, you know how Jesus drank juice” -- I mean, “Jesus drank wine”. And then she told me -- I don't know. I don't remember what exactly she said. She was like, “Yeah”. And then, like, I just tried to tell her, and then I'm not really too sure what happened in that conversation. I know I called my mom and I told her, and then --
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember, after you called your mom, anybody coming to the doors and banging on the doors.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection, leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember, after the telephone conversation that you had with your mother, that anything unusual occurred.
Gavin Arvizo: No. Because after the conversation I went to sleep.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you -- did you at some point go to the doctor's with that bottle there that's in front of you.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence; misstates the evidence; and leading.
The Court: Overruled. Do you want the question read back.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
The Court Reporter: Now, did you -- did you at some point go to the doctor's with that bottle there that's in front of you.
The Court: Okay. It's already in. Okay. We'll take our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, your clerk wanted us to clarify one thing. I talked to Mr. Sneddon -- if we could do that.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: With regard to Exhibit 5004, those were the cards that we showed on the screen --
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: -- and I said at the time I showed them that I believe there were three cards. It turns out, when we had the actual paper, there are four cards. However, these pages in this 5004 are all of the pages that were shown on the screen. It is the same thing. It's just there are actually four separate cards, instead of three.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sanger: And Mr. Sneddon, I believe, agrees with that.
Mr. Sneddon: I do.
Mr. Sanger: And we'll then give this back to your clerk.
The Court: Thank you, Counsel.
Mr. Sneddon: Ready, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Gavin, we were talking before the break about the bottle.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Did you ever take that to the doctor's appointment.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall who went with you.
Gavin Arvizo: I know that Vinnie, my mom and me went, but I don't know if anybody else went.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall at the time that you left to go to the doctor's appointment, how much pee you had put in the bottle, just generally.
Gavin Arvizo: It was filled up all the way to the top.
Mr. Sneddon: And when -- when you got in the car, where did you sit in the car.
Gavin Arvizo: I sat right behind my mom. My mom was in the passenger seat, so --
Mr. Sneddon: And who was doing the driving.
Gavin Arvizo: Vinnie.
Mr. Sneddon: And at some point between the time you left the ranch with Vinnie and your mother -- well, let me go back. Who had the bottle.
Gavin Arvizo: It was, like, sitting -- it was on the floor in front of my mom.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at some point on the -- and when you left the ranch and before you got to Kaiser, did you stop for any reason.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. I needed to pee.
Mr. Sneddon: And so where did you go. Do you remember where you stopped.
Gavin Arvizo: I think we stopped at a Denny's.
Mr. Sneddon: And you went inside.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know whether or not your mother went inside.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, I'm pretty sure my mom went inside with me.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at any time during that trip, did you hear some conversation about the contents of that bottle in front of you with the pee.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to that conversation, who spoke first; do you recall.
Gavin Arvizo: I think it was my mom.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall what she said.
Gavin Arvizo: She said the bottle was empty.
Mr. Sneddon: And was this before you actually got to the hospital itself and went inside.
Gavin Arvizo: When --
Mr. Sneddon: If you can answer “yes” or “no” first.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, where was it when that conversation occurred.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, it was -- we were pulling up to the curb right next to the hospital entrance, and I think my mom was about to pick it up to go inside the hospital, and I think that's when she figured out that the bottle was empty.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you actually handle the bottle at any time after that. When she said it was empty, did you pick it up yourself.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you go into the hospital with your mother.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Vinnie go with you.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't think so. I think he went to go park the car or something.
Mr. Sneddon: I want -- let me grab that out of the way for just a second.
The Court: That's not been admitted yet. Were you offering it, or not.
Mr. Sneddon: I am, Your Honor. I thought we did.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm going to object, Your Honor. Because the witness did not say that was the actual bottle he used.
The Court: They can't hear you back there.
Mr. Mesereau: The witness did not state under oath that's the actual bottle he used. I believe Mr. Sneddon presented it like a bottle that supposedly looked like it.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, may I be heard on that, Your Honor, before you rule.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, you're allowed to use exhibits, even if they're not exact ones, that are illustrative of the ones that were used. And I believe the witness has established that this was like the one that he used. You don't need to bring in the exact one that was used. What if it was destroyed. You don't need to do that.
The Court: Okay. I'll take that under advisement.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Gavin, I want to go back for just a second. Do you remember me asking you questions about Mr. Jackson coming up the stairs.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the time that you said he was naked.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And I asked you whether or not he said anything to you at that particular point in time.
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: And you said you didn't recall anything.
Gavin Arvizo: I do not.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall testifying at the grand jury.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: You testified there a couple of times, did you not.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: One time that I asked you questions and one time that Mr. Zonen did.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Would it refresh your recollection if I showed you what you said to the grand jury about that incident.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Objection.
The Bailiff: You have to go -- -
Mr. Mesereau: Improper question. He can't coach the witness like that, Your Honor.
The Court: I agree.
Mr. Sneddon: I can't refresh his recollection, Your Honor.
The Court: Not till he says he doesn't recollect.
Gavin Arvizo: I do not recollect. (Laughter.)
The Court: Oh, that's it.
Mr. Sneddon: He already said that. Now may I approach the witness.
The Court: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Sorry.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you have a recollection of what you told the grand jury.
Gavin Arvizo: About that situation.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't recollect anything that he said when he came up there.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall what you told the grand jury about that.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Would it refresh your recollection if you were able to see what you told the grand jury.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm going to object, Your Honor. This is highly improper. He's trying to coach the witness with a transcript.
The Court: The --
Mr. Mesereau: You can't just lead him along and say --
The Court: It's not clear to me what you're asking about that he doesn't recollect, so --
Mr. Sneddon: I'll go back and do it again, then, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Gavin, with regard to that portion of your testimony, when you indicated to this jury just a little while ago that you had no recollection of what Mr. Jackson said when he walked in front of you naked, do you recall that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Well, he didn't really walk. He just came up the stairs.
Mr. Sneddon: He came up the stairs.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you saw that he was naked.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And I asked you if you recall whether he said anything to you, do you recall that, in front of this jury here.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you said you did not.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you testify --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading. They're all leading questions. Move to strike.
Mr. Sneddon: It's foundational to whether --
The Court: Overruled. The next question is.
Mr. Sneddon: You interrupted me. I forgot, Judge. All right. I think I can --
The Court: Would you like the court reporter to read it back to you.
Mr. Sneddon: I don't think I got it out. It was one of those senior citizen moments. I do want the last question read back. Thank you. If you don't mind.
The Court Reporter: Now, did you testify --
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you testify to an incident before the grand jury with regard to Mr. Jackson coming in.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe I did testify about that.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you tell them what he said; do you recall.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't recall him saying anything.
Mr. Sneddon: Would it refresh your recollection if you were able to look at that testimony.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection.
The Court: You may -- you may show him the testimony to see if it refreshes his recollection.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you, Your Honor. Counsel, page 424, lines 1 to 3.
Mr. Sneddon: Gavin, I'm going to show you this and -- and I just want you to read it to yourself. Don't say anything about it. Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Actually, Counsel, I'm looking to start on the lines before, just so he gets the whole incident. I'll start at line 24.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Having read your grand jury testimony, does that refresh your recollection as to what you told the ladies and gentlemen of the grand jury.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What did you tell them about whether or not the defendant made any statements.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, we were sitting on the bed. When me and my brother were “eeuuww”, that's when Michael said, “It's okay”, that it's natural. And I remember that by reading the grand jury testimony.
Mr. Sneddon: So that refreshed your recollection.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: I want to go back and just ask one or two questions about your homework, and then we'll move on to another subject. Okay. The books that you have in front of you there, in the exhibit -- I think it was 349. 348. What is that. We don't have the bag.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh, yeah, it was in the brown bag.
Mr. Sneddon: Madam Clerk, could you help me with that. Somehow the tag must have come up.
The Clerk: I'm sorry, what was that.
Mr. Sneddon: It's the one with the homework in it.
The Court: That's 348.
Mr. Sneddon: The sticker must be -- I have it. It was stuck to some plastic.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. With regard to the items, 348, that are in front of you, some of those items that are in front of you look like you have some writing on them. Did you ever do any homework while you were at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: I think I, like, started and never --
Mr. Sneddon: I can't hear you.
Gavin Arvizo: I probably started, like, one assignment, and then never finished it, and then went and played some more.
Mr. Sneddon: I can't hear you.
Gavin Arvizo: I think I just started like one, like, homework, but I didn't finish and just went and played some more.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, on the rebuttal video -- do you remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember somebody making a comment about Mr. Jackson helping with their homework.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did he ever help you with your homework.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, I think that was the time. Like, I was in his room.
Mr. Sneddon: You were in his room.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: And he helped you.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, for that part. And then we started, like, playing around.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I'm going to show you some photographs. This is the last bit of photographs. And I'm almost done. Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to show you the photographs that are marked as 76, 77, 78, and 79 - okay --.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- in evidence. All right. The first one on top is 77, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No. 76.
Mr. Sneddon: 76. All right. Go ahead and put it up on the board. With regard to the photograph, 76, is that the one that's up on the board.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Do you recognize that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What is that.
Gavin Arvizo: That's Michael's bed.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to this particular photograph, you've told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury -- let me strike that. Start over again. You told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury that at times that you were with Mr. Jackson and you were in that bedroom and you drank alcohol.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you see any places in that photograph where you used to put the alcohol.
Gavin Arvizo: On the sides of the bed.
Mr. Sneddon: What do you mean “on the side of the bed”. There's a little laser up there. Can you show the ladies and gentlemen of the jury. No, there isn't. Okay. Go ahead.
Gavin Arvizo: He would sometimes put the wine bottles on the sides of the bed. I think I put it one time on this ledge, but it didn't really work too good because of all this stuff here.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, is there anything in this particular photograph that you see that's different than when you were there.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, that crib. The crib wasn't there. And then this computer wasn't there.
Mr. Sneddon: Those are on the far right-hand side of the exhibit, 76; is that correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's go to the next photograph. Do you recognize that photograph. What number is that, by the way.
Gavin Arvizo: 77.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Do you recognize that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. It's the same room.
Mr. Sneddon: Pardon.
Gavin Arvizo: It's the same room.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And was there anything in that particular photograph that's different from when you were there.
Gavin Arvizo: There -- I'm pretty sure there was a desk right here. And hey, there's the vacuum. But the crib was right here, and then -- I mean, the crib wasn't there, and the computer wasn't there.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, would you hold the spot where you thought there might be a desk right by where that silver case is on the floor in the yellow bag.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Let's go to the next photograph. Now, do you recognize that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And that photograph is what number.
Gavin Arvizo: 78.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And I want to show you the next one, and then I'm going to ask you some questions about both of them. What's the next photograph you have.
Gavin Arvizo: 78.
Mr. Sneddon: And the next one.
Gavin Arvizo: Oh. 79.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, do you recognize 79.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, you have 78 and you have 79 in front of you.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Which -- where was the table that you were talking about with the computer that didn't work.
Gavin Arvizo: Right here.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I'm going to take this little -- okay. You can take this pen and sort of draw where it is that you saw the table, where you believe the table was, on the photograph. And would you put your initials on that, please. Just somewhere on the photograph.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, we're going to transition to the Elmo for just a second. We're done with this, Your Honor.
The Court: So we want to go to the -- is it the same input.
The Bailiff: The input is “4”.
Mr. Sneddon: We've got it, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Up on the board is the photograph I asked you to mark, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the “GA”, that's your initials.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the area that's in black represents what.
Gavin Arvizo: That's the little -- where the desk was.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, do you see where you put the “GA”, in the white area there.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What is that.
Gavin Arvizo: That's, like, kind of like a movie screen thing. And then -- oops, sorry. And then there's -- then we would direct all the movies that we would watch onto that screen.
Mr. Sneddon: Turn around and look into the microphone, if you can, for me. With regard to that screen, was that screen there when you were there.
Gavin Arvizo: After we came back from Miami, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Go ahead and turn the lights on. Now, Gavin --
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- at any time while you were at Neverland Ranch, did Mr. Jackson ever touch you inappropriately.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. How many times.
Gavin Arvizo: What I saw in my memory is only twice, but, I mean, there's -- like I kind of feel it was more than twice, but, I mean, the only times that I saw in my mind that he did it was only twice.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Tell us about the first occasion.
Gavin Arvizo: The first time -- well, my brother stopped sleeping in our room with us.
Mr. Sneddon: You're going to have to slow down and talk right into that mike now. I know you're nervous, but go ahead.
Gavin Arvizo: My -- my brother had stopped sleeping in our room and --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive. Move to strike.
Mr. Sneddon: I'll lay some foundation, Your Honor.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Sneddon: Gavin, the first time he touched you, where were you. What room.
Gavin Arvizo: We were in his room.
Mr. Sneddon: Where were you in his room.
Gavin Arvizo: On the bed.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there anybody else present besides you and Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I think it was only us.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury that on many occasions, that you and your brother and Mr. Jackson shared a bed in his bedroom, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: On this particular occasion, had your brother Star been with you and Mr. Jackson in bed before that.
Gavin Arvizo: Before this --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
Mr. Sneddon: That's a terrible question anyhow. I'll withdraw it.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there a period of time where your brother Star stopped sleeping with you and Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. The answer was “Yes”.
Mr. Sneddon: And was it before or after the time that Mr. Jackson touched you for the first time.
Gavin Arvizo: When my brother stopped.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah.
Gavin Arvizo: It was before, because he stopped sleeping in our room -- in the room.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Tell the jury how it came about that you and Mr. Jackson were in bed together and what you were doing.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, we were -- well, we just had come back from drinking a lot in the arcade, and it was --
Mr. Sneddon: Doing what.
Gavin Arvizo: Drinking in the arcade.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you pull that down just a little bit. There. Okay. Go ahead.
Gavin Arvizo: We just came back from drinking in the arcade, and then we went up to his room. And then we were sitting there for a while, and Michael started talking to me about masturbation.
Mr. Sneddon: So you were in the room for a while and the defendant started talking to you about masturbation.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What did he say to you.
Gavin Arvizo: He -- he told me -- he said that if men don't masturbate, that they can get to a level where they can -- might rape a girl or they might be, like, kind of unstable. So he was telling me that guys have to masturbate. And he told me a story that --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. We'll stop right there.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: What else did he say to you.
Gavin Arvizo: He told me a story of he saw a boy one time - he was looking over a balcony or something - and he saw a boy who didn't masturbate and he had sex with a dog.
Mr. Sneddon: Did he tell you anything else during this conversation.
Gavin Arvizo: That particular section. Or --
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah. I mean, did he tell you anything else.
Gavin Arvizo: He told me that boys had to masturbate, or males have to masturbate.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
The Bailiff: They cannot hear.
Mr. Sneddon: They couldn't hear what you had to say, Gavin. I know it's hard. Lean right into it.
Gavin Arvizo: He told me that males have to masturbate.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, when he said that, what, if anything, did he do or say after that.
Gavin Arvizo: He said that if I masturbated; and I told him that I didn't. And then he said if I didn't know how, that he would do it for me.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did you say.
Gavin Arvizo: And I said I didn't really want to.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And then what happened.
Gavin Arvizo: And then he said it was okay, that it was natural, and that it's natural for boys to do it.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. What happened after that.
Gavin Arvizo: And then so he -- we were under the covers, and I had his pajamas on, because he had this big thing of pajamas and he gave me his pajamas.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: And so I was under his covers, and then that's when he put his hand in my pants and then he started masturbating me.
Mr. Sneddon: Could you see Mr. Jackson while he was doing that to you.
Gavin Arvizo: Not really. I wasn't really looking at him.
Mr. Sneddon: Could you tell whether or not he was moving.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, he was -- he was himself.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: I wasn't really looking at him. All I could -- I could kind of feel him moving, but, I mean, I never really saw him moving.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know approximately how long Mr. Jackson masturbated you.
Gavin Arvizo: Maybe five minutes, I guess.
Mr. Sneddon: Did -- do you know what an “ejaculation” is.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you have an ejaculation.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Mr. Jackson say anything to you afterwards.
Gavin Arvizo: I kind of felt weird. I was embarrassed about it. And then he said it was okay; that it was natural.
Mr. Sneddon: Did anything else happen that evening between you and Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: No. We just -- after that, we just -- he tried to say that it was okay and that -- kind of like to comfort me, because I felt weird. I felt weird about it. And then after a while, we just went to sleep.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there any other occasion where Mr. Jackson touched you.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: When was that.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, there was about a day after that, he did it -- he did it one more time.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Where were you.
Gavin Arvizo: In his bed.
Mr. Sneddon: And was it daytime or nighttime.
Gavin Arvizo: It was nighttime.
Mr. Sneddon: And who else was -- was there anybody else present besides you and Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: And what were you doing up in his bedroom at this point in time.
Gavin Arvizo: Well, we just came back from the arcade again, and then we went up to his room. And then we were sitting -- I think we were watching T.V. or something, and then we were on top of his covers, and he did it again.
Mr. Sneddon: How were you dressed on this occasion.
Gavin Arvizo: In his pajamas again, because I would always use his pajamas.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And how was Mr. Jackson dressed; do you remember.
Gavin Arvizo: He was in his pajamas, too.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with -- tell us what happened.
Gavin Arvizo: The same thing happened again. And he said that he wanted to teach me. And then we were laying there, and then he started doing it to me. And then he kind of grabbed my hand in a way to try to do it to him. And I kind of -- I pulled my hand away, because I didn't want to do it.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Mr. Jackson say anything before he reached over and grabbed your private parts.
Gavin Arvizo: He would always say that it was natural and, “Don't be scared”, and it was okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, how long do you think it lasted the second time.
Gavin Arvizo: The same time.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ejaculate the second time.
Gavin Arvizo: I think I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when was it, at point in time, that Mr. Jackson reached over and grabbed your arm.
Gavin Arvizo: Maybe like halfway through it.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you say anything to him when you pulled your hand away.
Gavin Arvizo: I said that I didn't want to.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Mr. Jackson say anything to you.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't think he did.
Mr. Sneddon: Were there any other occasions where Mr. Jackson tried to do something to you that you felt was inappropriate, that you remember.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Nothing further, Your Honor.
The Court: Cross-examine.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Gavin, my name is Thomas Mesereau and I speak for Mr. Jackson. Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm on his side. All right.
Gavin Arvizo: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: Not the government. I'm on Mr. Jackson's side. Okay. We've never spoken before, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: We've never met, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: If I ask you any question and you don't understand the question, just say so. Don't answer it. Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: If something seems unclear, just say, “It's unclear, I don't understand it”. Okay. And I'll try and rephrase it.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you've told the jury that it was not till after your interview with three social workers that any inappropriate touching happened, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Hmm.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell the jury that it was not until after your interview with three social workers in Los Angeles --
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- that Mr. Jackson inappropriately touched you.
Gavin Arvizo: It was after.
Mr. Mesereau: It was after, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, in that interview, you told the three social workers that Mr. Jackson was a good guy, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You said he had been like a father figure to you, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You said he had helped you with your cancer, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, I don't know in that interview if I did. But I just said he was a good guy.
Mr. Mesereau: You said a lot of good things about him, true.
Gavin Arvizo: Pretty much, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, that was the point in time where you claim that Mr. Jackson wanted your family to go to Brazil, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know if I told the social workers that we were going to go to Brazil. I don't think I did.
Mr. Mesereau: But your statement about Mr. Jackson and Frank wanting you to go to Brazil was before or after the three social workers interviewed you.
Gavin Arvizo: The statement to who.
Mr. Mesereau: You said that Mr. Jackson said something about wanting you to go to Brazil, didn't you.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when was that, approximately.
Gavin Arvizo: When Michael wanted me to go to Brazil.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not too sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it before or after you interviewed the three social workers -- or, excuse me, they interviewed you.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm not too sure, but I believe --
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you left Neverland --
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, he's answering the question.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me. Pardon me.
The Court: Go ahead.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe we went to Calabasas after -- I think it was after the social workers.
Mr. Mesereau: So you went to Calabasas after the interview with the social workers, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: The interview with the social workers was at Jay Jackson's apartment, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Vinnie took you to Calabasas, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You stayed at the Calabasas Inn, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Vinnie and Frank took us there.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. You went right to the Calabasas Inn from the interview, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you go after the interview.
Gavin Arvizo: Azja took us up to Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: And you had a discussion -- the plans for Brazil were already being discussed, weren't they.
Gavin Arvizo: Not with me.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you'd heard about it.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know if I had.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, let me just ask you this: You complained after the Bashir documentary that people in the school yard were making fun of you, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You went to Florida right after that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You came back, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: There were media around your house, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I can't -- I don't know, because I didn't even -- from Miami I went to Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, the DCFS interview, the interview with the social workers, had to do with an investigation of Mr. Jackson, true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, and as a result of the Martin Bashir documentary.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. And you went to Calabasas after that, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I went up with Azja to Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: How long were you at Neverland then.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, excuse me, the witness didn't get a chance to finish his answer.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Gavin Arvizo: After -- after the DCSF, we went up to Neverland with Azja.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And to the best of your knowledge, there were plans in effect to take you to Brazil, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. I'm not sure if I knew about them at that time.
Mr. Mesereau: So what you're telling the jury is that after you were interviewed by three social workers investigating Michael Jackson and after all the commotion that followed the Bashir documentary, somehow Mr. Jackson starts to improperly touch you, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No, it was more toward the end. Toward when we were already about to leave, after we'd been drinking alcohol and all that stuff. It wasn't directly after the DCSF. It was more toward the end of the --
Mr. Mesereau: So right before you're supposed to leave to Brazil --
Gavin Arvizo: No, right before we left Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh, right before you left Neverland for good.
Gavin Arvizo: No, right before -- maybe a few days.
Mr. Mesereau: A few days before you left Neverland for good.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, because -- yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So it's actually a little bit after the interview with the social workers, then, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Maybe it's a little bit after. And it's probably -- I don't think it happened right -- like, it didn't happen, like, the day -- like, he did it, and then the day after, we left. I don't think it happened like that.
Mr. Mesereau: But it's right before you leave Neverland for good, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Maybe a week before, or something like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And you've already had the interview with the social workers, as you said, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You've already been to the Calabasas Inn, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've already left the Calabasas Inn and gone by The Laugh Factory and met with an attorney, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: So after you meet with an attorney, you suddenly come up with a story that you were masturbated by Michael Jackson, correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Argumentative, Your Honor.
Gavin Arvizo: No, because --
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me.
The Court: Overruled. You can go ahead and answer.
Mr. Mesereau: Correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No, because I did not tell the attorney anything about what Michael was doing.
Mr. Mesereau: But you're saying it started after --
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, I did not tell the attorney anything about alcohol or anything like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Vinnie takes you, your mom, and Star to The Laugh Factory on Sunset, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You and your mom get out of the car, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You go into The Laugh Factory on Sunset, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You meet with Jamie Masada and an attorney named William Dickerman, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You have a meeting with the two of them, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You come back, you get in the car, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You go back to Neverland, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I think we did.
Mr. Mesereau: And then you leave Neverland again, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. I think. I guess.
Mr. Mesereau: And not long after your meeting with the attorney, you say that Mr. Jackson inappropriately masturbates you, true.
Gavin Arvizo: No, because I didn't really say it right after I met him. I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: It was a while after you met him, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: That's when the inappropriate touching starts.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't -- the only person I said it to was to my psychologist, Dr. Katz, and the officer, Steve Robel, and Paul Zelis, that's --
Mr. Mesereau: We'll get to that. You first went to Attorney Larry Feldman after Attorney William Dickerman, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Attorney Larry Feldman then referred you to a psychologist, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When you first went to Attorney William Dickerman, you were talking about being harassed and things of that sort, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I -- I don't remember what I talked about.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you met with him with your mom, true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And then you and your mom met with Larry Feldman, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: It was only after you met with Larry Feldman that you started talking about inappropriate touching, true.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't talk -- I didn't randomly talk about it with people.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, I didn't ask if you randomly talked about it. I asked if you talked about it.
Gavin Arvizo: Who are you specifying that I talked about it to.
Mr. Mesereau: Larry Feldman, whom you knew had sued Michael Jackson in the early '90s, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I did not tell anything like that to Larry Feldman. The only person I told anything even resolving (sic) to that was Dr. Katz. And I told the whole story to Steve Robel and Paul Zelis.
Mr. Mesereau: But, no, you first went to the two lawyers, a psychologist, before you went to any police officer, true.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object as argumentative by saying “no” in the beginning.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it, if you want, Your Honor.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: You went to two lawyers, and a psychologist whom Larry Feldman referred you to, before you went to any police officer, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, these weren't the first attorneys you've ever talked to, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I've talked to other people, other attorneys before.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you had an attorney representing you in the J.C. Penney case, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I think so. I'm pretty sure.
Mr. Mesereau: You testified under oath in that case, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell the truth under oath in that case.
Gavin Arvizo: Of course.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't tell one solitary lie.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You said that security guards had body slammed your mother in a parking lot.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object. 403 ruling.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: How many days -- just a couple of days before you left Neverland for good, you're saying this inappropriate touching went on.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I said probably -- maybe a week or two.
Mr. Mesereau: Couple of days. You said a couple days before, didn't you.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I said maybe a week or two.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, but after you went with the lawyer, though, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as argumentative, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. It's asked and answered. I'll rephrase.
Mr. Sneddon: That, too.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you told the jury yesterday that Michael Jackson didn't do much for your cancer, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that a true statement.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah, because I didn't see him much. He would tell me that he wasn't there, when he was there at the ranch. And it made me really sad, because in my mind, he was my best friend in the whole world, and my best friend was trying to avoid me while I had cancer.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Michael Jackson call you at the hospital while you had cancer.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, he called me and invited me up to the ranch.
Mr. Mesereau: He talked to to you a lot in the hospital, didn't he.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling the police in your first interview -- you were asked the question, “And did you talk to him a lot while you were in the hospital”. “A. I talked to him a lot. Like, he would call and I'd call him and stuff, and we'd just talk about, like, video games”. Do you remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. I probably meant lengthy conversation as in time.
Mr. Mesereau: You were then asked, “How often did he call you”. “I don't know. But I think it was probably at least three times a week or something”. Do you remember that.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. Including outside of the hospital. My grandmother's house.
Mr. Mesereau: But that's not what you told the sheriffs, was it. You told him that he called you approximately three times a week.
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me. He's not even giving the witness a chance to answer the question.
Mr. Mesereau: I thought he answered the question.
The Court: You're cutting him off.
Mr. Mesereau: I apologize. Pardon me. Let's go over it again.
Mr. Mesereau: You told Santa Barbara Sheriffs in your first interview, Mr. Arvizo, that Michael Jackson called you about three times a week at the hospital and you would talk for two or three hours at a time, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. During the -- probably during the period of when -- in the beginning, of the first few -- two months of my cancer where I was actually going and hanging out with Michael. And after those two months, it was all cut off.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell the Santa Barbara Sheriffs that when you were in the hospital with cancer --
Gavin Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: -- Michael Jackson would call you at least three times a week, and speak to you for an hour, two hours or three hours at a time.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael would call me during the -- probably -- during the beginning of my cancer, probably three times a week. And I would call him and we would talk for a long time. We would talk about video games. We would talk about people he knew, people I knew, stuff like that.
Mr. Mesereau: In the hospital, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Sometimes he would call me in the hospital.
Mr. Mesereau: I'd like to explore your statement to the jury that he didn't do much to you -- much for you when you had cancer.
Gavin Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: You've just talked about the calls, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: He invites your family to his home, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: He invited us to Neverland in the beginning, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: He lets your family stay at his home for weeks, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: He gives you a car to use, true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, same car he takes back in the middle of the time that I really needed a -- that my family needed a car.
Mr. Mesereau: Gives your family an SUV so they can go back and forth to the hospital, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Gives you a computer, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Flies your family to Florida and lets them stay at a resort for two nights, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No, he took me to Florida in result of the Martin Bashir documentary that was being aired.
Mr. Mesereau: Did your family stay at the resort hotel called Turnberry in Florida.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael put us up in the resort, in the Turnberry.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you get a massage.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Chris Tucker paid for that massage.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you get a massage.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Chris Tucker paid for that massage.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you get a watch --
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- from Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you get a jacket from Mr. Jackson.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did your family go back and forth and stay at Neverland free.
Gavin Arvizo: Everyone stays at Neverland for free.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, who do you think pays the bills.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as argumentative, Your Honor.
The Court: Well, on both parts. Let's start another question. Don't --
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Arvizo --
The Court: Just a minute. I'm sorry. I'll instruct both the witness and the attorney not to argue with each other.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Arvizo, your family would stay for weeks free of charge at Neverland, true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Your meals would be paid by -- for by Mr. Jackson, true.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know someone else that paid for it.
Gavin Arvizo: No. But I was pretty sure it was Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: You would travel by limousine back and forth, true.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You also traveled by Rolls Royce on occasion, true.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I only traveled in a Rolls Royce when I was escaping from Neverland with Jesus.
Mr. Mesereau: When you were escaping.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you went back -- how long after you escaped did you go back there again.
Gavin Arvizo: I think a few days later, when Vinnie and Frank came down.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. When you escaped, where did Jesus take you.
Gavin Arvizo: He took me to my grandmother's house.
Mr. Mesereau: And then two days later you went back with Vinnie.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know about two days, but maybe a few days.
Mr. Mesereau: So you went back, and then you escaped a second time, right.
Gavin Arvizo: I think so. Whatever.
Mr. Mesereau: And then you went back and you escaped a third time, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, there were like three escapes, weren't there.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you ever talked to Mr. Sneddon about how many times you people went back voluntarily and then escaped from Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Mr. Sneddon.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Gavin Arvizo: I think we did. I'm pretty sure we did.
Mr. Mesereau: When you were at Neverland, you would use the amusement park when you wanted, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. But -- well, I couldn't always do it because I would feel sick all the time --
Mr. Mesereau: Well --
Gavin Arvizo: -- with cancer.
Mr. Mesereau: -- who do you think paid the utilities to run all the amusement rides at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would use the zoo when you wanted, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: No, because I wouldn't go to the zoo. Michael would take us over there when he wanted to take us over there, and we'd see the tigers.
Mr. Mesereau: Who do you think was paying for all of that.
Gavin Arvizo: Michael, because Michael wanted all that in his house.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh. And do you think he was really being good to you by letting you stay there and go to the zoo, the amusement rides.
Gavin Arvizo: He probably was. But, I mean, this is talking about the first few months. And I don't really -- see, Mr. Mesereau, it takes more --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection, Your Honor. Could he just answer the question.
The Court: Sustained. Just answer the question.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you use ATV's at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who paid for the ATV's.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm pretty sure Michael paid for the ATV's.
Mr. Mesereau: What else did you do at Neverland when you used to hang out there with your brother, your sister, your father, your mother.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably be in my unit, because I was sick.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there a blood drive for you at Neverland.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And Mr. Jackson put that together, didn't he.
Gavin Arvizo: Probably.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I heard something about a blood drive, but I can't really remember too much about it.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't remember a blood drive at Neverland that Mr. Jackson put together for you when you had cancer.
Gavin Arvizo: I remember -- I remember something about my friend -- my friend had come down to the hospital and told me about it, but I don't -- I remember something about a blood drive, but I'm not too sure about it. He -- I'm pretty sure he did.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, I believe you told the jury yesterday you thought George Lopez did more for you when you had cancer than Michael Jackson, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. For my 11 year-old mind, he came and visited me and would always talk to me and buy me shirts and stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Mr. Lopez let your family move into his home.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as argumentative, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Arvizo, did Mr. Lopez give you a Rolls Royce for your family to ride around town in.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he provide limousines for your family to ride around town in.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he pay a lot of your bills so your family could stay at hotels.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't know. That's up to my --
Mr. Mesereau: Did he pay for flights so your family could go cross country.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm pretty sure he did, to pay for us to go to Miami.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times do you think your family visited Neverland and stayed there.
Gavin Arvizo: Every time Michael wanted us to.
Mr. Mesereau: But you went there many times when Michael wasn't even there, right, Mr. Arvizo.
Gavin Arvizo: Only with Michael's permission.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you and your family go to Neverland and stay many times when Michael Jackson wasn't even around.
Gavin Arvizo: I would. Not my whole family. Me and my father would. Because in the first two months of my cancer, when I was -- when I thought I was pretty close to Michael, I would go up there and stay with him between my rounds of chemotherapy.
Mr. Mesereau: Can you look this jury in eye and tell them Michael Jackson did nothing for you when you had cancer.
Gavin Arvizo: I never said Michael did nothing for me.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you say he did very little.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah. He didn't do as much as I felt, as my 11-year-old mind felt.
Mr. Mesereau: He should.
Gavin Arvizo: No. He shouldn't -- it's not his obligation to do anything.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, are you telling the jury you deserved a lot more from Michael Jackson than you and your family got.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that what you're saying.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I'm just saying that -- see, when I have a friend, Michael, and you're saying all these things that he did, but, you know, when my 11-year-old mind -- and when I see my friend say that he's not there, and he's not at Neverland Ranch trying -- and I see him walking and I see his car that he only drives going down at Neverland, you know, it felt like my heart broke right there.
Mr. Mesereau: So by doing all of these things --
Gavin Arvizo: And I don't remember George Lopez or Jamie Masada or Louise Palanker ever doing that to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they take your family into their homes, any of them.
Gavin Arvizo: Actually, I went over to -- actually, I spent a night at Chris Tucker's house.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he let your family move into his home; yes or no.
Gavin Arvizo: I'm sure he probably would have if we really got to a point where we couldn't live at our house no more.
Mr. Mesereau: There isn't one celebrity that you approached who let your family move into his home, except Michael Jackson, true.
Gavin Arvizo: I didn't --
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me. I'm going to object to the question. Assumes a fact not in evidence, and it's argumentative.
The Court: Overruled.
Gavin Arvizo: I never moved into Michael's house. I never moved my stuff over there and lived there permanently. I stood there and visited.
Mr. Mesereau: Your family was there for weeks at a time, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. And they also kept us there for weeks at a time when we wanted to leave.
Mr. Mesereau: Is this one of your many escapes where you came back.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as argumentative, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: I withdraw it, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Arvizo, when your family decided not to go to Brazil, where did they go.
Gavin Arvizo: What do you mean.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, when your family decided they didn't want to go to Brazil, they went to your grandparents' house, right.
Gavin Arvizo: When we left with Jesus, we went to my grandma's house. I don't really understand.
Mr. Mesereau: When you left with Vinnie for the final time, you went to your grandparents', right.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't really -- as I told Mr. Sneddon, I don't really remember how it came about that we left the last time.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm not asking you how it came about. But you got in a car with Vinnie and went to your grandparents' the last time.
Gavin Arvizo: Now you're telling -- right now you're telling me how it came about. I don't know how it came about.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Vinnie taking your family to your grandparents' when you left Neverland for good.
Gavin Arvizo: No, because I do not remember what happened when we left for the last time.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember leaving for the last time at all.
Gavin Arvizo: I know that we left, because I remember, I went to my grandma's house.
Mr. Mesereau: When you say you escaped with Jesus, where did you escape to.
Gavin Arvizo: We went to my grandma's house.
Mr. Mesereau: Jesus took you in a Rolls Royce to your grandma's house, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When your family wanted to leave, they left, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Object; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled.
Gavin Arvizo: Can you repeat the question.
Mr. Mesereau: When your family wanted to leave Neverland, you either had a limousine or a Rolls Royce take you where you wanted to go, right.
Gavin Arvizo: No. It wasn't a limousine. And we never left in a limousine, because when we left it was when they didn't really know.
Mr. Mesereau: It was a Rolls Royce, wasn't it.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes, because that was the only car available. It wasn't as if we told Jesus to take us in a Rolls Royce.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Gavin Arvizo: It was a vehicle. An automobile that we can use to leave.
Mr. Mesereau: Has any lawyer told you what to say in this courtroom.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Has any lawyer ever told you what to say under oath.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Remember, your deposition was taken in the J.C. Penney case.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes. It was taken when I had cancer, because I was unable to show up at the court case.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was when you and your mom were suing J.C. Penney, correct.
Gavin Arvizo: I believe it was my whole family that was suing them.
Mr. Mesereau: Did a lawyer tell you what to say in that case.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Remember, you said under oath, “Did anyone tell you what you should testify about here today or how you should say things”, and your answer was, “Only our lawyer”.
Gavin Arvizo: What.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember saying that in the J.C. Penney deposition.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show that to you.
Gavin Arvizo: Uhh, sure, I guess.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to review that page of your deposition in the J.C. Penney case.
Gavin Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Remember testifying that a lawyer had told you what to say.
Gavin Arvizo: They didn't tell us what to say.
Mr. Mesereau: Huh.
Gavin Arvizo: They didn't tell us what to say.
Mr. Mesereau: But that's what you said when you had your deposition taken, right.
Gavin Arvizo: They probably -- I don't know, because, I mean, I was eight years old. And I don't really remember what was going on.
Mr. Mesereau: You were ten years old, right.
Gavin Arvizo: Maybe -- ten years old probably at the deposition. But, I mean, I was eight years old when it happened.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you and your mom talk about the facts of that case before your deposition was taken.
Gavin Arvizo: No, I don't think we were allowed to.
Mr. Mesereau: So you never discussed it with your mom before the deposition was taken.
Gavin Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever talked about the facts of this case with your mother.
Gavin Arvizo: No. I don't think we're allowed to either.
Mr. Mesereau: So you've never discussed the facts of this case with your mother.
Gavin Arvizo: Um, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever discussed the Bashir documentary with your mother.
Gavin Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: When.
Gavin Arvizo: We had talked about it with her sometimes, like how I felt about what I said on there.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you last discuss the Bashir documentary with your mother.
Gavin Arvizo: I do not remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Gavin Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: We've come to the end of the day.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
The Court: We're going to do something different. Everyone remain seated, please. Take the jury and the witness out. I'll see you all Monday.
A Juror: Bye.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: I just didn't want to say this in front of the jury. This morning I issued a warrant for Mr. Jackson's arrest and held it for an hour. The warrant is recalled. The Court also forfeited Mr. Jackson's bail at the request of Mr. Jackson. His bonding company has agreed to resume the liability on the bond, and has given the Court permission to reinstate the bond. The Court therefore reinstates the bond as previously -- as previously filed and orders that the reinstatement be filed with the Court. Court's in recess. Thank you.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:30 p.m.
