Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Thursday, March 17, 2005 8:40 a.m.
The Court: Good morning.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor.
The Court: The reason we're starting a little late this morning is we had a conference with counsel. And, for several reasons, I'm going to release the jury tomorrow so that they do not have to be here. And the reasons are, one, that one of the jurors has a pressing family matter that, while it doesn't demand that we close the court down, it would be better if we did. Secondly, the attorneys and myself have been, I think, pushing ourselves very hard, or I've been pushing everybody very hard. Depends on how you look at it. And I think a break for everybody is in order. And there are three or four minor -- by “minor”, I mean -- I shouldn't say “minor”. There are three or four issues that the attorneys and the Court need to deal with before next week. They're issues that have been mentioned yesterday that we just couldn't get to. This way, we can work for what I would anticipate to be a short time tomorrow morning on those issues, and then you would have the rest of the day off. We all would have the rest of the day to do our other work. So that's what I'm going to do. The Court will also be in session only one-half a day next Tuesday. Tuesday afternoon we are dedicating the new Juvenile Court facility, and the new Juvenile Hall in Santa Maria out on -- off of California Street. And of course you're all invited. I know, I won't see you there. But that's the reason that we will not be in session Tuesday afternoon. I will stop at 11:30, at our normal 11:30 break. All right. I think that that takes care of the issue of being dark tomorrow. And Mr. Jackson, you do not need to attend, unless you want to, tomorrow morning.
The Defendant: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
The Court: Are you ready to proceed.
Mr. Zonen: Yes, Your Honor. We'll call our next witness. We call Fritz Coleman to the stand, please.
The Court: Remain standing, raise your right hand, please.
Message: FRITZ COLEMAN Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Fritz Coleman: Yes, I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Fritz Coleman: Fritz Coleman, F-r-i-t-z C-o-l-e-m-a-n.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Coleman, good morning.
Fritz Coleman: Good morning.
Mr. Zonen: Sir, what is your current occupation.
The Court: Back in the back, Counsel. Is your mike on. Thank you.
Mr. Zonen: Yes, it is.
Mr. Zonen: Sir, what is your current occupation.
Fritz Coleman: I'm a weather forecaster at Channel 4, the local NBC station in Los Angeles.
Mr. Zonen: And how long have you held that position.
Fritz Coleman: 23 years.
Mr. Zonen: Prior to that, did you have other television experience.
Fritz Coleman: Minor television experience. That was my -- I was in the stand-up comedy business before that, actually.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know Jamie Masada.
Fritz Coleman: Yes, I do.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know the business that he runs.
Fritz Coleman: Yes, I do.
Mr. Zonen: What business is that.
Fritz Coleman: Owner of The Laugh Factory, a comedy club in Hollywood.
Mr. Zonen: And tell us what The Laugh Factory is. What do they do.
Fritz Coleman: The Laugh Factory is a comedy nightclub that has one to two shows per night every week where a cavalcade of five to six comedians perform every night.
Mr. Zonen: Have you ever performed there.
Fritz Coleman: Yes, I have.
Mr. Zonen: Do they have a camp, a summer camp, that they run out of The Laugh Factory.
Fritz Coleman: Yes, they do.
Mr. Zonen: Have you ever worked with that summer camp, with the children who go there.
Fritz Coleman: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And the type of children who go there, they're from where.
Fritz Coleman: Underprivileged children, at-risk children. Group homes, poor families.
Mr. Zonen: How long has that summer camp existed.
Fritz Coleman: I don't know the answer to that. I think five or six, seven years maybe.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you ever have an opportunity to meet any of the children in the Arvizo family.
Fritz Coleman: Yes, I did. I was invited, as were many of the comedians that performed at The Laugh Factory, to be a guest teacher for one day, on one Saturday. And the Saturday that I taught there, I met all three of the children.
Mr. Zonen: Can you tell us their names. Do you recall their names.
Fritz Coleman: Gavin, Star, and Davellin.
Mr. Zonen: Were either of their parents, a mother or father, present at the time that you met them.
Fritz Coleman: The mother came to pick them up at the end of the day. That was my brief encounter with her.
Mr. Zonen: And do you remember her name.
Fritz Coleman: I don't know, I'm sorry to say.
Mr. Zonen: And did the children perform during that day.
Fritz Coleman: Yes, they did.
Mr. Zonen: Did you work with them during that day.
Fritz Coleman: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And how did you find them at that time.
Fritz Coleman: I found them personable and polite and charismatic and --
Mr. Zonen: And do you remember how long ago that was.
Fritz Coleman: I would say 1999.
Mr. Zonen: At some time did you learn that one of the three children became afflicted with cancer.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recall when that was, the year that was.
Fritz Coleman: Um, I think it was 2000, because after my tenure as the teacher there, I lost touch with the family until a group of people just sort of began to discuss that Gavin was in Kaiser with cancer.
Mr. Zonen: All right. At some point in time, did you have an occasion to visit their home, the Arvizo family home.
Fritz Coleman: Yes, I did. Once. The Christmas after the summer when I was the instructor there, my good friend, Louise Palanker, and I decided that we would, for lack of a better term, adopt this family for Christmas. They were, to our learning, in dire financial straits. And I had two young sons who were 12 and 10 at the time, and wanted to seize an opportunity to do something nice for a family and sort of bring them along the process, just to help them appreciate more what they had in their own lives. So my friend Louise and I went to Best Buy, and bought several hundred dollars worth of Christmas gifts - video game equipment, movies - and wrapped them. And then my sons and I and Louise took them down to their home in East L.A., and I was in their home for a total of 20 minutes, just to drop the gifts off, and get hugs from the kids, and we were out of there.
Mr. Zonen: Did anybody from the Arvizo family solicit those gifts.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did they ask you in advance.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did they know in advance that you were doing this.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; calls for speculation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell them in advance that you were doing this.
Fritz Coleman: I don't think so. I think after we bought them we said, “May we pay you a Christmas visit”. And they sort of -- they knew before the precise moment we took gifts down there, but it was something we just sort of did a couple of weeks in advance and brought them into the process later. They didn't know before we shopped or anything. It was totally our idea.
Mr. Zonen: All right. How did you know where they lived.
Fritz Coleman: My friend Louise got their address, and we just navigated our way down there.
Mr. Zonen: Was Gavin healthy at the time or -- was this prior to the --
Fritz Coleman: This is before the cancer, yes.
Mr. Zonen: And the kids were approximately how old at that time, if you recall.
Fritz Coleman: I would say between 8 and 11. Somewhere in that area. I'm sorry I can't be precise.
Mr. Zonen: Did you, in fact, go to their house and go into their apartment.
Fritz Coleman: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have a recollection of what the apartment looked like.
Fritz Coleman: Yes, it was very small. Very clean. And I remember that the room was partitioned with sheets, because there were -- with the three children and the two adults, five people, living in a very small space. I was just stricken with how small it was.
Mr. Zonen: And the small space you're describing, was it more than one room.
Fritz Coleman: I didn't take a tour of the home. It seemed like it was one room. Again, partitioned by these sheets that they had set up to sort of divide areas of the room.
Mr. Zonen: When you were there, did you have a conversation with any of the members of the family.
Fritz Coleman: Yes. The people who were there. I -- I'm not actually sure if the father was there. But I remember the mother being there, and the three children. And it was really a very brief encounter. 15 to 20 minutes.
Mr. Zonen: Would you describe the mother's reaction to your bringing the gifts.
Fritz Coleman: Very thankful. The children, very thankful. I got the feeling that this might have been the only Christmas they were going to have. It just seemed like it was the right thing to do, and perhaps it was -- it saved Christmas for them. That was my feeling. They never expressed that, but it was my feeling.
Mr. Zonen: And your kids came into the home as well.
Fritz Coleman: My children came into the home. My young son was actually afraid to get out of the car. This was not a neighborhood that he was familiar with, so he had to be coerced from the car. So my older son went in with me first, and then we went and got my younger son, who wanted to stay in the car.
Mr. Zonen: All right. When was the next time that you had an opportunity to visit with any member of the Arvizo family; do you recall.
Fritz Coleman: Having learned that Gavin had cancer, I saw -- I don't remember which of the siblings was at the hospital, but the next time I saw him was he and his dad at the hospital.
Mr. Zonen: What was Gavin's condition at the time you saw him.
Fritz Coleman: Very ill.
Mr. Zonen: How did he appear to you.
Fritz Coleman: He appeared very drawn and pale. And this was in the darkest days of his diagnosis when they weren't sure he was going to make it. And he was very sick to his stomach, and it was very hard to watch.
Mr. Zonen: All right. How many times do you believe you visited him at the hospital.
Fritz Coleman: Several. I would say between three and five, if my memory serves me.
Mr. Zonen: During the period of time that he was ill, were you involved in any fund-raising efforts on behalf of either the Arvizo family or Gavin Arvizo specifically.
Fritz Coleman: Yes, I was. The Laugh Factory decided they wanted to do a fund-raiser for this family. It was apparent to us that they needed the money, because David was not working. He was staying every night at the hospital with Gavin, and so we thought it would be a good idea. I'm not exactly certain where this idea came from. I'm assuming it was Jamie Masada, because he did those things all the time, charity events at the club. And so I was happy to be involved. I was happy to make an announcement on my television station about it. My station was very liberal in allowing me to do community outreach charity events like that, as long as I didn't benefit from them personally. And so I made an announcement inviting our viewers to come, and also made an announcement about the need for blood for Gavin. He needed transfusions at that time. And so we did this benefit, as we've done for many other people.
Mr. Zonen: Did Gavin's mother involve herself in any way with you in efforts to arrange solicitation for his charitable donations.
Fritz Coleman: Not with me, no.
Mr. Zonen: Did she ever have a conversation with you at all about that.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a conversation with any member of the Arvizo family for that.
Fritz Coleman: No, my relationship for that fund-raiser was totally with Jamie Masada. It was -- he spearheaded the evening, and I was just doing sort of what he suggested.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember if there was actually -- if the fund-raising effort actually occurred.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was that at The Laugh Factory.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us where The Laugh Factory is.
Fritz Coleman: It's the corner of Laurel Canyon and -- Laurel Avenue and Sunset Boulevard in Hollywood.
Mr. Zonen: That particular event, did that take place in the evening.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember approximately when it took place.
Fritz Coleman: It was a weekday event. If it's like his other shows, if I can remember, it was probably an eight o'clock start, and there were five or six comics. And I was on early in the evening, because I had to go back and do the eleven o'clock news.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if that was during the time that Gavin was still ill with cancer, before he went into remission.
Fritz Coleman: I can't be certain about that, but it seems to me like it was close to the beginning of his being ill when we were all concerned about him every day. I think it was close to the beginning, if I'm not mistaken.
Mr. Zonen: Was that in conjunction with the effort to get blood to him.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Which would suggest that he was probably still in need of it.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you see the mother of this child, Gavin's mother, at that fund-raiser at The Laugh Factory.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember if you saw any other member of the Arvizo family.
Fritz Coleman: I saw David. I went in the front door upon arriving, and my recollection was that they had a table set up to the right of the entrance of The Laugh Factory where they had, I'm not sure how many people, but it seemed to be a representative of The Laugh Factory and David himself and people taking tickets, and maybe taking further donations if anyone decided to make a donation to the family over and above what the cover charge of the club was. But I couldn't tell you how many people. David was the only person, other than Gavin, that I saw there that night.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Were you involved in any way in the distribution of the money that was collected.
Fritz Coleman: No. No.
Mr. Zonen: Are you aware as to how much money was collected that night.
Fritz Coleman: No. Check that. I heard in conversation afterwards that it was a couple thousand dollars. Just in talk amongst the comics and Jamie. But it was an unofficial thing. I saw no bookwork, I saw no cash exchange hands. I wasn't involved in that at all.
Mr. Zonen: Could you tell if it was a fairly good turnout at The Laugh Factory.
Fritz Coleman: That club is always full, so I -- it probably was a relatively full room. I couldn't tell you exactly how many audience members were there.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember what other comedians were there.
Fritz Coleman: Well, I was at the beginning of the show, because I was -- again, it was a lunch break for me, and I was on my way back to do the news. I think that Chris Tucker was there. Maybe Bob Saget. Some of the ongoing Laugh Factory regular comedians. But I didn't see the rest of the show, so I couldn't swear to their presence there, honestly.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember any other occasion where you may have seen the mother of Gavin, Gavin's mom.
Fritz Coleman: I saw Gavin's mom a total of three times in my whole experience with the family. One was when she came to pick the children up at the end of comedy camp. The other time was when we delivered the presents to her house. And the last time was my final visit to see Gavin in the hospital after his first bout. She came in toward the end of my visit there. And I hadn't seen her. I think the legend was that because David was not working and staying with Gavin, she was working all the time. So they were never at the hospital at the same time. However, my last visit, she came in at the end, and that was it. And that was a total of a half hour.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember anything unusual about your conversations with her at all.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did she ever solicit money from you.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did she ever ask you to do anything on her behalf or on behalf of her family.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Zonen: Was there anything at any time inappropriate about her behavior with you.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. I have no further questions.
The Court: Mr. Mesereau.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, please, Your Honor.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning, Mr. Coleman.
Fritz Coleman: Good morning.
Mr. Mesereau: My name is Thomas Mesereau and I speak for Mr. Jackson. We have not met before.
Fritz Coleman: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: Never spoke on the phone.
Fritz Coleman: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: You did talk to one of our investigators, Mr. Scott Ross, right.
Fritz Coleman: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times did you speak to him.
Fritz Coleman: Two times in person, one time when he did the initial interview, and one time when he issued my subpoena. And I think one time on the phone, I think.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When did you first meet the Arvizo family.
Fritz Coleman: I met them at the comedy camp, as I stated earlier, which was a Saturday in the summer, I think, of 1999. It was a one-day encounter with them, because each of the instructors was only there for one day.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, at that point was Gavin ill.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Approximately when do you recall Gavin becoming ill.
Fritz Coleman: I remember learning about it - I'm real fuzzy about this - anywhere from six months to a year after I met the family. I'm sorry, I'm --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And approximately when do you think the fund-raiser took place.
Fritz Coleman: I want to say -- I'll be honest with you, the timeline that we've discussed since this investigation started seems to be about October 2000.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, at some point, did you learn the Arvizo family had obtained over $100,000 in a lawsuit with J.C. Penney.
Fritz Coleman: No, I hadn't.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, I'm going to object to information that would be hearsay. Move to strike.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever have a discussion with any of the Arvizos about their filing a lawsuit against J.C. Penney.
Fritz Coleman: No. My first knowledge that I was even mentioned in the J.C. Penney arrest was when the New York Daily News called me at the beginning of this case to ask me if I had a comment about it, and that was my first learning of that information.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you learn about your name being used in that case.
Mr. Zonen: I will object as hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you learn at some point that your name had come up in the J.C. Penney lawsuit.
Mr. Zonen: I will object as hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know anything about Janet Arvizo telling the Los Angeles Police Department when she called them about David that you were going to help her --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as hearsay and irrelevant.
The Court: I have to have the complete question. Did you finish the question, Mr. Mesereau.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm not sure. I think Mr. Zonen may have interrupted before I completed it, Your Honor.
The Court: I can't tell if you completed it either.
Mr. Mesereau: I can rephrase it, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Coleman, did you ever authorize Janet Arvizo to tell the Los Angeles Police Department that you were going to help her in a domestic violence case against her ex-husband David.
Fritz Coleman: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn that she had told the Los Angeles Police Department, “Fritz Coleman, Kobe Bryant, and Michael Jackson are going to help me in my case against my husband”.
Fritz Coleman: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you learn that.
Fritz Coleman: I learned it from a New York Daily News reporter who was calling me to get comments about this particular case.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you respond.
Fritz Coleman: I said I knew nothing about it.
Mr. Mesereau: So you never had a discussion with her about that.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You never authorized her to use your name, correct.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever authorized Janet Arvizo to use your name in any lawsuit.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you ever discussed any lawsuit with Janet Arvizo.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you indicated that you visited the -- what was described to you as a family residence in East Los Angeles, right.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was on Soto Street, right.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And who arranged for you to visit the residence at Soto Street.
Fritz Coleman: My friend Louise Palanker, who was working at The Laugh Factory at the time, and was sort of my liaison with the family. She learned the address. I don't know how she learned the address. But she had the instructions, and I drove.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did anyone ever tell you that there was a second address in El Monte that the family used.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know anything about where their grandparents lived.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you ever been to a different location in El Monte where that family has lived.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you aware of any efforts by the Arvizos to obtain automobiles from other celebrities.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Knew nothing about any attempt to obtain an automobile from Michael Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you aware of any other attempts by the Arvizo family to obtain cash from celebrities, other than the fund-raiser you're talking about.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as vague. Which Arvizo.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll go through them. I'll rephrase.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever aware of any attempt by Janet Arvizo to obtain cash money from any celebrity.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever aware of David Arvizo attempting to obtain cash from any celebrity.
Fritz Coleman: May I say that I had heard conversation about him having done that. I don't know if it works in this case. There were some stories that he had approached George Lopez and was -- David, and was fairly persistent about it, raising George's anger. Again, this is hearsay. I heard this third-person rumor. But there were conversations around The Laugh Factory that he, in fact, had become a problem with George Lopez.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever aware of Gavin Arvizo calling Jay Leno on the phone to ask for money.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Zonen: Assumes facts not in evidence; objection.
The Court: All right. The answer is in: “No”. And next question.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear of Janet Arvizo approaching Mr. Leno for money.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; assuming facts not in evidence.
The Court: Calls for hearsay. Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, was Janet Arvizo approaching any other comedian and asking for money at the same time that you were making efforts to raise funds for the family.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you -- did you have any knowledge of either -- well, let me just go one at a time. Did you have any -- let me rephrase it.
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object to any questions starting with “Do you have knowledge” if there's no foundation that it's personal knowledge.
Mr. Mesereau: Well --
Mr. Zonen: Simply hearing something from somebody else is hearsay.
The Court: We have to wait till the question is completed. And you can't object in advance to all questions. Go ahead.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Coleman, obviously you were involved in efforts to raise money for the Arvizo family, right.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And the motivation for your efforts was your belief that the Arvizo family needed money for medical expenses, true.
Fritz Coleman: I would say that my understanding was that the Arvizo family needed money, and I -- my involvement wasn't because of a specific need for medical expenses. It was just that I had been to their home and know that, for whatever reason, they needed money.
Mr. Mesereau: But you had mentioned to our investigator, Scott Ross, on one occasion, that it was your belief that you were raising money for medical expenses for Gavin, correct.
Fritz Coleman: That may have been part of the conversation. But I think my original desire to be involved with it really wasn't that specific. I just said, “Yes”, not even needing specific areas where the money would go.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know that the Arvizo family was engaged in any other fund-raising efforts at the time that you were doing this.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know of any newspaper ads saying chemotherapy costs $12,000 a session. Do you know anything about that.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you ever have a discussion with any of the Arvizos about whether they had insurance coverage that was paying all the medical bills.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you know anything about efforts to solicit funds or benefits from Los Angeles police officers.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, I assume you met Star Arvizo, correct.
Fritz Coleman: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: Davellin Arvizo, right.
Fritz Coleman: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Obviously Gavin.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you met his mother.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you met David.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet any other people that were related to the Arvizos, to your knowledge.
Fritz Coleman: No. No.
Mr. Mesereau: And you visited their home on Soto Street in East Los Angeles how many times.
Fritz Coleman: Once.
Mr. Mesereau: And was the purpose, in your mind, for you to donate something to the Arvizos.
Fritz Coleman: It was -- my purpose in it was to teach my children something, which was we're going to do something for folks who can't afford to have a really good Christmas like we always have. And Louise and I -- and I don't know when the conversation came up -- said that this would be a great way for us to do that, to take care of the Arvizos, that we had become very fond of because of comedy camp, and to do this for my kids. It was just -- it was a spur-of-the-moment thing. That was the only reason.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, correct me if I'm wrong, I think you said in response to the prosecutor's questions that it was your belief David Arvizo was not working, right.
Fritz Coleman: Well, I don't see how he could have been, because he was at the hospital every time and slept overnight in an adjacent bed. So I think we all assumed that he had taken a leave from work or was not -- between jobs or something. No one told me that. It was just sort of what we observed.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you know at that time whether or not Janet Arvizo was actually working.
Fritz Coleman: I was told that she was, which was why we never saw her at the initial few visits to the hospital.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You mentioned a blood drive.
Fritz Coleman: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Or I think the prosecutor mentioned a blood drive. Were you part of any effort to put together a blood drive for Gavin.
Fritz Coleman: I wasn't part of putting it together. I made an announcement on television about this benefit, which I'm allowed to do unofficially all the time. And in the context of that announcement, I mentioned that “We're also trying to find some blood for this child”. But I wasn't part of the organizing of the drive, or the location, or the times, or the official carrying out of the event at all.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever aware of Michael Jackson putting together a blood drive for Gavin.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you never participated with Michael Jackson --
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: -- in any fund-raising activity --
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: -- or blood-drive activity.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, who told you this family was impoverished.
Fritz Coleman: Well, the prerequisite to be in the comedy camp was to be from a needy situation. They had children who were from group homes with disciplinary problems, emotional problems, or people from poverty stricken areas. That was Jamie's mandate. So that them just being in attendance at this comedy camp sort of put them in that area.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, this would have been before Gavin became ill, correct.
Fritz Coleman: Right. That was my first meeting with him, which was the summer of '99.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when you first met the Arvizos before Gavin became ill, was it your understanding that David was employed.
Fritz Coleman: I didn't have an opinion about it at that point. I knew nothing about the family's personal life. I just knew that they were probably in these circumstances because they were there.
Mr. Mesereau: And before you -- excuse me. When you first met the Arvizos, again, before Gavin became ill, was it your belief that Janet was unemployed.
Fritz Coleman: I -- again, I didn't have that knowledge. I just --
Mr. Mesereau: But your assumption was they must be poor or they wouldn't be in this program, correct.
Fritz Coleman: Absolutely.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never had -- made any effort to find out whether they were working or not working, right.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know whether or not they were collecting welfare.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know whether or not they were collecting disability benefits.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether or not they were collecting food stamps.
Fritz Coleman: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you aware of their being in any other programs for impoverished families.
Fritz Coleman: I knew nothing about their personal life at all.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you were active in The Laugh Factory at that point, right.
Fritz Coleman: Yes. Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you active in organizing this summer camp that you've described.
Fritz Coleman: No, I was a guest teacher. Every Saturday they had a different guest. Arsenio Hall and George Lopez and Bob Saget and comedians who worked there regularly would donate eight hours a Saturday. We had one instructor per Saturday, and this happened to be my particular Saturday when I met the Arvizos.
Mr. Mesereau: Who did you believe was responsible for deciding who is impoverished and who needs help at The Laugh Factory.
Fritz Coleman: The decision was Jamie Masada's. It was his club. It was his program. And I -- I'm assuming that -- well, I shouldn't assume. But I would gather that he worked in conjunction with social service agencies to maybe get these children funneled there. It seemed like there were people from that, from that realm there as well. I'm not certain about that. I'm assuming that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether or not the Arvizos approached Jamie Masada, or Jamie Masada approached the Arvizos for purposes of that summer camp.
Fritz Coleman: I have no knowledge of that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, before Gavin became ill, did you -- were you aware of any efforts at The Laugh Factory to raise money for the Arvizos.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you aware of any other efforts anywhere else to raise money for the Arvizos.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And who told you Gavin was ill.
Fritz Coleman: I don't remember precisely who it was. It may have been my friend Louise Palanker, who was sort of my liaison with The Laugh Factory on a ongoing basis. It may have been Jamie Masada. Just -- it became knowledge among the comedians down there.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that Louise Palanker was donating money to the Arvizos.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn how much.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as hearsay, unless he was personally present.
The Court: As to the question and the answer that were given, the objection is overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever personally see Louise Palanker write out checks to the Arvizos.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever tell you how much she had given the Arvizos.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How much was that.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: And was Louise Palanker encouraging you to give money to the Arvizos.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have any knowledge of Chris Tucker giving anything to the Arvizos.
Fritz Coleman: Not firsthand knowledge, but it was legend that he had been extremely generous with shoes and cash and those things. But I'm not a friend of Chris's. This was just sort of legend around The Laugh Factory at the time, he had been very generous with them.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, was Chris Tucker a regular at The Laugh Factory, as far as you know.
Fritz Coleman: Yes. When he was not doing movies, he would appear there periodically.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you see him often.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at the point in time where you met the Arvizos before Gavin became ill, how often would you see them.
Fritz Coleman: Never. As a matter of fact, from the time we made that donation -- not the “donation”, the Christmas gifts, until the time when we were made aware that he was ill. I hadn't seen them, however long a period of time that was.
Mr. Mesereau: And at the fund-raiser, you were present, right.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was that on a weekend.
Fritz Coleman: No, it was a weekday.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was it at night.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you saw David Arvizo and Gavin Arvizo there, correct.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you see any other Arvizo family members, to your knowledge.
Fritz Coleman: I think one or both of the children were there. But I just can't remember. I was in and out very quickly.
Mr. Mesereau: And was this fund-raiser advertised; do you know.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And where was the advertising taking place.
Fritz Coleman: I was the advertisement for at least a portion of it. I mentioned it on our news program, that we were doing this for this family, and -- which I'm allowed to do. And that was my only experience with any advertising concerning this event.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if any other celebrity was engaged in advertising for this fund-raiser.
Fritz Coleman: No, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you think you were the only one at that point.
Fritz Coleman: I had no opinion about that. I was just sort of reacting to what I could do, and I really didn't know. It seemed very fast. The idea was borne and a couple of days later we made the announcement, and I wasn't paying that much attention to the other aspects of it.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, The Laugh Factory is on Sunset, not far from Fairfax, correct.
Fritz Coleman: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And The Laugh Factory has signs out front, doesn't it.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And The Laugh Factory will typically advertise what's going on that evening on those signs, right.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall whether or not The Laugh Factory had a big advertisement about this fund-raiser for the Arvizos.
Fritz Coleman: I couldn't answer that. I'm sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: But typically that sign does change almost on a daily basis, doesn't it.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And because there seemed to be events at that Laugh Factory most evenings, right.
Fritz Coleman: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long have you known Jamie Masada.
Fritz Coleman: Ten years.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your belief that he was really in charge of putting this whole fund-raiser together.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you got there for the fund-raiser, was he there.
Mr. Zonen: “He” being Masada.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Fritz Coleman: To my recollection, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see other celebrities at the fund-raiser.
Fritz Coleman: Chris Tucker.
Mr. Mesereau: Anyone else.
Fritz Coleman: No, because, again, I was sort of threading a very small needle to come and make my appearance and go back to work to do the eleven o'clock news, so I didn't stay to see who else was there. But Chris was there, because I remember him being engaged with Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, was the fund-raiser inside The Laugh Factory.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And as you walked into The Laugh Factory, did you notice any way money was being contributed.
Fritz Coleman: As I mentioned before, as you walked in, they had a table set up to the right, adjacent to what is the normal box office. And I remember David Arvizo being -- either sitting or standing in back of this table. There were several people seated. They were selling tickets, and people could make donations over and above if they chose to. I didn't pay any attention to the transactions that were going there. I was just sort of walking through this foyer into the main club.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you walked into The Laugh Factory, did you see Gavin anywhere.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you see Gavin.
Fritz Coleman: There's a balcony area upstairs where comedians waiting to go on can linger, and I was up there with Louise and Gavin and his father and Chris Tucker. Sort of all milling around. We weren't in one group. But we were all in that area.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, were people being introduced to Gavin.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And tell the jury how that happened, based on what you saw. I mean, would people be led upstairs to see Gavin.
Fritz Coleman: Not necessarily. It was sort of very unofficial and informal. When the people would drift in and out of that little room, people would come up and introduce themselves. They knew who he was. And I really can't delineate who -- between who he knew and who he didn't know, to be honest with you. I wasn't paying that close attention.
Mr. Mesereau: Were there photographs of Gavin at the fund-raiser.
Fritz Coleman: I think so, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did you first see a photograph of him.
Fritz Coleman: I can't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall Kobe Bryant being at that fund-raiser.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see --
Fritz Coleman: If he was there -- again, I was only there at the beginning of the evening. He may have later. But I didn't see him.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately how many people did you see at the fund-raiser.
Fritz Coleman: I saw about two-thirds of a roomful of people, which was my point in the evening at the beginning, whatever that turns out, 100, 150 people.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if any requests were made for cash at that fund-raiser by anybody.
Fritz Coleman: I have no recollection of that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if people were typically paying by check. Did you see this.
Fritz Coleman: No, I didn't pay any attention to the money transactions at all.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if Jamie Masada was getting any portion of the money that was raised.
Fritz Coleman: I have no idea.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss that with him.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And I think you said that you have no idea how much was raised, correct.
Fritz Coleman: No. The conversation after it was over was, a couple of thousand dollars. We did pretty well. It was a couple of thousand dollars. It was really just to raise awareness about Gavin's condition. It wasn't a dollar amount that we were heading for.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the fund-raiser last a couple of hours.
Fritz Coleman: Typically those events do. 8:00 to 10:00, 8:00 to 10:30.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you learn a couple thousand dollars was raised.
Fritz Coleman: Just in conversation afterward. “How did we do”. Well, a couple thousand dollars. It wasn't bad. It wasn't a lot of money. It was very unofficial and just a matter-of-fact conversation about it.
Mr. Mesereau: And are there often fund-raisers at The Laugh Factory --
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- that you're involved in.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was this any different than others you've seen.
Fritz Coleman: No. Jamie is very good about doing various things for the underprivileged or homeless during the holiday, feeding groups of people. He's great about that. There's things like that happening all the time down there.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have any knowledge how the Arvizos arrived for that fund-raiser.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Or who drove them or what car they used.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever see the Arvizos after that fund-raiser.
Fritz Coleman: Well, let me see. I can't remember if -- no, I think that was after Gavin was out of the hospital, after it went into remission the first time, and then I didn't visit with him. I wasn't -- I wasn't connected to the family much for his second visits when it got really bad again, so, no, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: You did visit the hospital a number of times to see Gavin, right.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you did, on one of your visits, see a huge gift package from Michael Jackson, right.
Fritz Coleman: Yes, that was my final visit.
Mr. Mesereau: Please describe what that basket looked like, if you can.
Fritz Coleman: It looked like a huge box that had a number of gifts in it. I didn't look really closely at it. But I remember Gavin beaming that it was a gift from Michael. I said, “Wow, that's phenomenal”.
Mr. Mesereau: So Gavin told you it came from Michael Jackson.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss Michael Jackson's gift basket with any other member of the family.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You saw that gift basket obviously before your family made a trip to Soto Street to what was described as the Arvizo residence, right.
Fritz Coleman: No, the Christmas gift-giving from me was before Gavin even got sick.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Fritz Coleman: That was my second encounter with him. That was the Christmas after I had met them at comedy camp. Gavin got sick after that point.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, was it your understanding when you visited Soto Street before Gavin was ill that you were trying to contribute to an impoverished family.
Fritz Coleman: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: And at that point in time, how did you determine they were impoverished.
Fritz Coleman: Well, they had to be impoverished to be in this comedy camp.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that your only criterion.
Fritz Coleman: That was my only criterion. And then after I met the children. And I remember having a conversation during the day when I was instructing that the children had to take three or four different bus routes to get to the comedy camp that day with their mom. And so it just touched my heart, so we wanted to do something. I mean, I didn't investigate whether they were truly impoverished or not. I just had a good feeling about them. I thought they were wonderful children and wanted to do this for my kids, and so that was it.
Mr. Mesereau: When you first met the Arvizos, you met Janet, correct.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did you meet Janet.
Fritz Coleman: She came to pick them up at the end of this comedy class.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So that was at The Laugh Factory.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times have you seen Janet at The Laugh Factory, if you know.
Fritz Coleman: That was the only time I saw her at The Laugh Factory.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And typically would you see the father with the children at The Laugh Factory, when you saw them.
Fritz Coleman: I only saw the family gathered once at The Laugh Factory, and that was the fund-raiser. And that night David and Gavin were there, and either one or both of the siblings. I can't remember which.
Mr. Mesereau: And I think you described this, but I'm not too sure of the details. When you first went to the Soto address --
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- with your children --
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- before you ever heard Gavin was ill --
Fritz Coleman: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: -- were you there to contribute.
Fritz Coleman: I was there to give them these gifts that we had bought to try to make their Christmas. That was it.
Mr. Mesereau: Did someone tell you they can't afford gifts for Christmas.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You just assumed that because they were in that summer program.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Can I ask you what you brought them.
Fritz Coleman: We brought, I would say, $300 to $350 worth of gifts. We brought an Nintendo game, and some DVDs and some other games. All from Best Buy. I can't remember precisely what it was.
Mr. Mesereau: When you say “we”, is that you and Louise Palanker.
Fritz Coleman: Louise Palanker, right.
Mr. Mesereau: Did anyone else provide gifts, to your knowledge.
Fritz Coleman: Not on this occasion.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever give them any gifts after that.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So between -- the first time you gave any of the Arvizos was the family visit, and you did nothing by way of fund-raising until the fund-raiser at The Laugh Factory.
Fritz Coleman: Exactly.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how much time elapsed in between, if you know.
Fritz Coleman: I can't be sure. It seems like, as I mentioned before, six months to a year. It just seems like it. It's fuzzy.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Coleman, do you know who asked you to advertise the fund-raiser on the air.
Fritz Coleman: Nobody asked me to do it. I've done it for previous events like that. And I volunteered it immediately upon learning what they wanted to do. Nobody had to ask me for it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And after your family visited the Soto address, did you maintain constant contact with the Arvizos.
Fritz Coleman: No. They -- they would write cards of thank you, and call me at work and say they appreciated it, but they -- contact sort of dropped off a little bit after that. We all went our separate ways.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Would you see them from time to time at The Laugh Factory.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was it your understanding they kept involved with Mr. Masada at The Laugh Factory.
Fritz Coleman: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was that understanding based on.
Fritz Coleman: I have no specific understanding about it. I know that he's sort of -- considers himself a mentor to many of those children, and went out of his way to maintain a contact with them, sort of unofficially.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you last talk to Janet Arvizo.
Fritz Coleman: The last time I spoke to her was the last day I went to visit Gavin in the hospital, when she had walked in late. And that was my first time I had seen her visit her son in the hospital. And that was it.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you say you often saw David there and not Janet. And how many times did you visit Gavin at the hospital.
Fritz Coleman: I'm saying between three and five. I can't be more specific, I'm sorry. But every time I was there, David was there. And I'm sure we had discussed the fact that he was not working and he was staying overnight in the bed adjacent to his son.
Mr. Mesereau: What was your understanding that Janet was working based upon. Was it just supposition.
Fritz Coleman: I can't name anything specific, but I think I might have discussed it with my friend Louise that, “Wow, she's having to work for both of them during this period of time”. I -- it's just a feeling I had. I didn't have any specific information about it. If I'm not mistaken, she was working -- if my memory serves me right, she was working as a waitress at the time.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall receiving any cards from the Arvizos.
Fritz Coleman: I think I did. I think I received a thank you note after the Christmas gifts were given.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall what kind of words were on that thank you note.
Fritz Coleman: No. Nothing dramatic. Just --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: Counsel.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Coleman, the thank you note that you received, was there anything inappropriate written on it.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Zonen: Was there anything that caused you to sit back and be concerned.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. When you went out to the house in East Los Angeles -- and I say “house”. It was actually a studio apartment; is that right.
Fritz Coleman: Right.
Mr. Zonen: Was there anything that you saw in this apartment that caused you to question whether or not they really were a family in need.
Fritz Coleman: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And you said that the room was divided up. Explain how it was divided up for us.
Fritz Coleman: It seemed like they partitioned off a portion of it with a sheet. A sheet had been hung. I don't know if it was to separate children's living areas. I didn't want to take a tour of it. I didn't want to make them uncomfortable with showing me what they did or didn't have in their life. So it seemed to me they had various areas partitioned off with a sheet hanging with a cord across to sort of divide a room that wasn't otherwise divided. That was my initial impression.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And were there beds or anything that looked like beds that you were able to see from your vantage point.
Fritz Coleman: I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: All right. The fund-raiser, as Mr. Mesereau refers to, the event that took place at The Laugh Factory, was that the only event that you were aware of that was done for Gavin.
Fritz Coleman: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Was that a fund-raiser or was it for blood donations.
Fritz Coleman: It was both. It was both. It was to bring people down to The Laugh Factory, and to raise awareness about him needing a specific blood type.
Mr. Zonen: They weren't taking blood at that time.
Fritz Coleman: No, it was just to -- if people were interested, they could contact The Laugh Factory or -- I wasn't sure if we had asked them to contact the specific number at Kaiser or what. But it was a very unofficial -- just sort of a consciousness raising announcement more than a specific thing.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Coleman, I have one last question. Are we expecting rain this weekend.
Fritz Coleman: Well, you know, I should be back there trying to figure that out right now.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. I have no further questions.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down. Call your next witness.
Mr. Auchincloss: Our next witness is Kiki Solveig Fournier.
The Court: Come to the front of the courtroom, please. When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing. Face the clerk and raise your right hand.
Message: KIKI FOURNIER Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Kiki Fournier: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Kiki Fournier: My name is Kiki Fournier. It's K-i-k-i F-o-u-r-n-i-e-r.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Good morning, Ms. Fournier.
Kiki Fournier: Good morning.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you in the past worked for Michael Jackson at Neverland Ranch.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: What did you do. How were you employed at Neverland Ranch.
Kiki Fournier: I was a housekeeper.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you tell me the time frame that you worked for Mr. Jackson.
Kiki Fournier: I started in September of '91, and worked off and on till September 28th, 2003.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. When you say -- yeah, you have to speak directly into that microphone so we can hear you.
Kiki Fournier: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: When you say “off and on”, can you give me a little more specific description of what that means.
Kiki Fournier: Well, I worked a couple years, and then I would take some time off. I had a child back in 1993 also, so -- and then I would take a couple of years off, and then I would go back for a couple of years.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you said you left ultimately in September of 2003.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you leave of your own accord.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: At any time have you ever been terminated as an employee from Neverland Ranch.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Please describe your duties as a housekeeper at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Cleaning the main residence, cleaning the guest quarters, cleaning the theater.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would you have interaction with guests of the ranch.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And would you do anything other than just cleaning.
Kiki Fournier: Serve food sometimes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you have a particular shift that you worked.
Kiki Fournier: Well, it varied. It depended on who wanted to work during the day -- excuse me -- and who wanted to work at night. So I would sometimes more frequently work the nights.
Mr. Auchincloss: And describe for me what time frame we're talking about. What does the night shift consist of.
Kiki Fournier: Basically it was, you know, catching up on laundry and, you know, taking care of the guests, serving them dinner. Getting them anything that they needed.
Mr. Auchincloss: But as far as the time frame, from what hours. What would your hours be for the night shift.
Kiki Fournier: It depended. It just depended on if there was guests or if anybody was at the house.
Mr. Auchincloss: So you would finish up work at a different hour depending on the night.
Kiki Fournier: Depending on what the demands were during the day.
Mr. Auchincloss: What time would you normally report for work as a night-shift housekeeper.
Kiki Fournier: It all varied, but usually we tried to make it so that who came in later would work later.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ask not to have to testify in this case.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And why is that.
Kiki Fournier: I don't want --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; relevance.
Mr. Auchincloss: Goes to her credibility, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Kiki Fournier: I can answer.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes, you can answer.
Kiki Fournier: I don't want to have anything to do with this. I just don't like being the center of attention either.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. As an employee of Neverland, who was in charge at Neverland Ranch.
Kiki Fournier: Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were there certain administrators who were in charge of various functions, various functions concerning the operations at the ranch.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who were the main administrators.
Kiki Fournier: Joe Marcus was the ranch manager when I was there. And Jesus Salas was the house manager. And Violet Silva is the security, head of security.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Were those three managers working during the time period of 2002 to 2003.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did they have those assignments as managers during that period of time.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: What was -- do you know what Joe Marcus's job was as ranch manager.
Kiki Fournier: I -- oversee all the departments.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So would he oversee Violet Silva.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Jesus Salas, who was the house manager.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you observe his relationship with the defendant, Mr. Jackson.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Could you characterize that for me, please.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
Mr. Auchincloss: I can be more specific.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Auchincloss: You said you observed the relationship with Mr. Jackson. How often would you see them interacting in the course of your duties as a housekeeper.
Kiki Fournier: Well, not that often. I wasn't familiar when they were on the phone or when they would meet in person, but I do know that they would -- they would meet and they would speak to each other.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And were you present during any of those conversations when they were interacting.
Kiki Fournier: I probably was, but I don't really remember.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Do you know if Mr. Jackson would give Mr. Marcus directives.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Did you yourself have interaction with Mr. Jackson.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: How often.
Kiki Fournier: It depended on when he was there.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. How often -- can you characterize how often he was there.
Kiki Fournier: As a percentagewise.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yeah. And let's focus on the time period between 2002 through the time that you left in 2003.
Kiki Fournier: He was there a lot in the beginning of 2003.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So my question was -- where we started here was, did you interact with Mr. Jackson personally.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: In what fashion. How would that come about.
Kiki Fournier: I would serve him his foods. I would clean his house. I would answer the phones.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what was the level of service that was provided to Mr. Jackson at Neverland Ranch by his employees.
Kiki Fournier: We always tried to provide him with the best of service.
Mr. Auchincloss: If Mr. Jackson wanted something a certain way, would there be any hesitation to tell you or let you know exactly what he wanted.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer. Do you want the question read back.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, please.
The Court: Okay.
The Court Reporter: If Mr. Jackson wanted something a certain way, would there be any hesitation to tell you or let you know exactly what he wanted.
Kiki Fournier: He wouldn't always tell us directly. He might tell Joe or he might tell Jesus, and sometimes he would tell us.
Mr. Auchincloss: But it would be communicated to you.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you ever seen the defendant, Mr. Jackson, fire anybody, been present.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; 352.
Mr. Auchincloss: Your Honor, it's offered to show the defendant's level of influence over his own employees.
The Court: All right. I'll limit it to a “yes” or “no” answer.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever see him fire any of his employees.
Kiki Fournier: I never saw him personally fire somebody.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Were his employees generally aware that Mr. Jackson could fire them.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Hearsay; speculation; vague; relevance; no foundation.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Jackson was the employer of these people.
The Court: Well, you may have a couple more reasons. (Laughter.)
The Court: I'll sustain the hearsay objection.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were you aware that you could be terminated at any given moment.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were you aware of anybody that had been fired -- was anybody fired at Neverland while you were there.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; 352; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer. “Yes” or “no”.
Kiki Fournier: Sorry, what was the question again.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were you aware of anybody who ever got fired at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know who fired them. Who was the person responsible for their termination.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Just answer that question “yes” or “no”. Which answers your objection.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, I was aware that he had fired people, Mr. Jackson. And --
The Court: Just a moment. I just wanted a “yes” or “no” answer to that.
Kiki Fournier: I'm sorry.
The Court: So the answer is “Yes”. Next question.
Mr. Auchincloss: When you were around Mr. Jackson in his presence, can you characterize his level of attention to the details of the service that -- the services that were provided to him.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
Mr. Auchincloss: I think she's qualified to answer that question.
The Court: I'm going to allow you to answer. Would you like it reread.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, please.
The Court: Okay.
The Court Reporter: When you were around Mr. Jackson in his presence, can you characterize his level of attention to the details of the service that -- the services that were provided to him.
Kiki Fournier: Mr. Jackson is a very detail-oriented person, so he did like to have his service the way he wanted it.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever observe Mr. Jackson to have overnight visitors at the ranch.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: How often would that be provided. How often would he have overnight guests.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague and foundation.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll be more specific.
Mr. Auchincloss: During the period of 2002 to 2003.
Kiki Fournier: Yes. He had overnight guests.
Mr. Auchincloss: How often would he have overnight guests during that time frame.
Kiki Fournier: I can't say exactly dates, but there was a lot of guests during that time. There was people there.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would you provide services to those guests.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And can you characterize the level of service that you provided the guests of Mr. Jackson.
Kiki Fournier: Again, we always tried to provide the best service, so we always tried to be detail oriented in doing our work.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was Frank Tyson a guest at Neverland Ranch during that time frame.
Kiki Fournier: I believe so, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who is Frank -- is Frank Tyson -- well, let me back up. Were you around Mr. Jackson when he was in the presence of Mr. Tyson.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And when was the first time that you're -- you became aware that Mr. Tyson was a guest at Neverland Ranch.
Kiki Fournier: That would have been when he was rather young. Sometime around, I would say, 1991. I would guess, but I can't say for 100 percent sure. But he was still young.
Mr. Auchincloss: And can you characterize the nature of the relationship between Mr. Tyson and Mr. Jackson, based upon your personal observations.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Kiki Fournier: They were close friends, it would appear.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know if Mr. Tyson ever worked for Mr. Jackson.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, I believe he did.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know what his assignment was, or his title.
Kiki Fournier: I remember hearing something about an assistant, or something like that. But I never knew for sure what his title was.
Mr. Auchincloss: Why do you say that they had a close relationship. What do you base that upon.
Kiki Fournier: They were just together when they were at the ranch and they would talk a lot. And there was a lot of communication between them it seemed.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And how often was Mr. Tyson at the ranch, if you could characterize, during that period of -- let's go back ten years to when you first started.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
The Court: Overruled. Go ahead. You may answer.
Kiki Fournier: How often was he there.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yeah. You worked for Mr. Jackson for over ten years, correct.
Kiki Fournier: Off and on, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you just told us that you were aware of Mr. Tyson visiting the ranch sometime around the beginning of your employment there, correct.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: So over that time span, can you give us an idea of how much time these two people would spend together at Neverland Ranch that you saw.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
The Court: Just --
Mr. Mesereau: I jumped the gun. Excuse me, Your Honor. Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you see Frank Tyson and Michael Jackson together at Neverland Ranch.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Over that ten-year period, which you previously stated that Mr. Tyson was -- began and was a guest of the ranch when you left, how often did you see them together.
Kiki Fournier: When Frank was at the ranch, they would be together often.
Mr. Auchincloss: And how often was he a visitor at the ranch.
Kiki Fournier: He could not be there for six months and then he could show up for a month, or -- you know, as an example. And -- or he could not be there for weeks, and then just come for a couple of days, and --
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Now, in the period of 2000 -- early 2003, did Mr. Tyson visit the ranch.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, I believe he did.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know if that was one of these month-long periods, or a couple of day periods, or something in between.
Kiki Fournier: I think he stayed for a while.
The Court: Counsel, we'll take our break.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Thank you.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you.
Mr. Auchincloss: Miss Fournier, do you know an individual by the name of Vinnie Amen.
Bailiff Cortez: Get closer.
Mr. Auchincloss: Vinnie Amen, do you know that name.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: How do you know that name.
Kiki Fournier: He worked out at the ranch with Frank.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Do you know what time period that was.
Kiki Fournier: It was during the beginning of 2003.
Mr. Auchincloss: You say he worked with Frank. Do you mean Frank Tyson.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And do you know -- what do you mean by “worked with Frank Tyson”.
Kiki Fournier: I don't know what his title was. But I know that he worked with Frank.
Mr. Auchincloss: And was Frank working at that time.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, I believe so.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what was Frank doing at that time, as far as you know.
Kiki Fournier: What Frank did.
Mr. Auchincloss: I mean, who was Frank working for.
Kiki Fournier: Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know an individual by the name of Dieter Weizner.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: How do you know that name.
Kiki Fournier: He also worked for Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did he ever visit the ranch.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: During that same time frame, end of 2002, the beginning of 2003, did Mr. Weizner visit there, the ranch.
Kiki Fournier: I believe so, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know what his title was or what he did for Mr. Jackson.
Kiki Fournier: I think he was a business associate of some kind.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know how often -- can you give me an example of the frequency of visits Mr. Weizner would have in relationship to that time frame period, and I want to focus -- in these next few questions, I'm going to focus on the time frame between the end of 2002 and the first three months, say, March, April of 2003.
Kiki Fournier: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: During that time frame, can you give me an idea of the frequency of visits Mr. Weizner would pay upon Mr. Jackson at the ranch.
Kiki Fournier: If my memory serves me correct, I would say that he was there quite a bit.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Ronald Konitzer. Do you know that name.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And how do you know that name.
Kiki Fournier: He was also, as far as I knew, a business associate of Mr. Jackson's.
Mr. Auchincloss: During that same time frame, frequency of visits at the ranch.
Kiki Fournier: Not as much as Dieter.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And Frederic -- well, Marc Schaffel, Schaffel --
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- do you know that name.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And how do you know that name.
Kiki Fournier: He was a guest at the ranch --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Auchincloss: You may answer.
Kiki Fournier: He was a guest at the ranch. And he was also -- I remember working on some sort of a birthday party, or something like that, for Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: He was working for Mr. Jackson in some capacity for a birthday party.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah, there was some big party at the ranch around Mr. Jackson's birthday in August. And --
Mr. Auchincloss: August of which year.
Kiki Fournier: 2003. So I know that he worked for him then, too, as far as I knew.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know what his title was or what his duties were with regards to this party.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague, and foundation, and assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: The question should be answered only “yes” or “no”. I'll have it reread to you.
The Court Reporter: Do you know what his title was or what his duties were with regards to this party.
The Court: “Yes” or “no”.
Kiki Fournier: I think so. So, yes.
The Court: She said, “I think so”. That's acceptable, too.
Kiki Fournier: Sorry.
The Court: But the reason I sustained that is that that's part of the foundation. I'm really sustaining a foundation objection ultimately.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Very well. Thank you.
Mr. Auchincloss: You said, “Yes”. What do you base that upon, that answer upon.
Kiki Fournier: Because I know that he was coordinating somehow on handing out checks for this birthday party that had gone on.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were you a witness to that.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And were you a witness to Mr. Schaffel giving any orders or instructions concerning this particular party.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
Mr. Auchincloss: Foundational.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And did -- were you informed -- did you ever have any interaction with Mr. Schaffel --
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- concerning this party.
Kiki Fournier: Well, not concerning the party. I mean, I was there with him. He gave me a ride on a golf cart one time when he was handing out checks. Actually, it was right after the party. The day after, I believe it was.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Were you there when this party occurred.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you tell me about it, the type -- what type of party was it.
Kiki Fournier: Um --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; relevance.
The Court: Overruled.
Kiki Fournier: There was a deejay there. And they had set up -- there was tents on the property, too, with artwork in them. And it was just a big birthday party. I mean, there was also cake there for Mr. Jackson. And he had some guests there, and --
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know what the artwork had to do with the party.
Kiki Fournier: I'm not exactly sure.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know if -- if this party had any -- if it cost money to attend this party. Do you know that. Yes or no.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, I think it did.
Mr. Auchincloss: And can you characterize the party in terms of its scale. Was it big. Maybe why don't we begin with about how many people attended this party, if you can estimate.
Kiki Fournier: 800, a thousand. I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
Kiki Fournier: I can't say for sure.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would children be among the overnight guests at Neverland while you were working there.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: How often.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: And based upon your own personal experience, in other words, what you observed, can you characterize how often children would be overnight guests at Neverland during your employment there.
Kiki Fournier: Let me just answer by explaining that there would be times when there would be nobody there, and then when Mr. Jackson would come home he would have guests with him, so they could stay a couple of days, weeks, or maybe even a month.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Let me refine that a little bit. During the time that you worked at Neverland and during the time that Mr. Jackson was on the property, how often would children be overnight guests at Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague; assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Under both grounds or --
The Court: The last ground.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
The Court: Assumes facts not in evidence.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were children ever overnight guests at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. I'm going to repeat my last question. How often were they guests at Neverland when Mr. Jackson was on the property.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Auchincloss: You may answer.
Kiki Fournier: I would say quite a bit.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would the children who were spending the night at Neverland have their parents with them when they'd visit or spend the night.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague, and foundation.
The Court: Sustained on foundation.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were you a witness as to whether or not these children came with their parents or were without their parents.
Kiki Fournier: Sometimes they came with their parents and --
Mr. Auchincloss: That's a yes-or-no question first. We have to do this in order.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: You were a witness, true.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you have personal knowledge as to whether or not the children's parents were with them when they visited Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Vague as to time.
Mr. Auchincloss: During your period of employment.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: You do, okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Auchincloss: And going back to my last question, can you tell us how often children would be overnight guests at Neverland without their parents.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation and vague.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Kiki Fournier: They were there quite a bit without their parents.
Mr. Auchincloss: How are children treated at Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
The Court: Overruled.
Kiki Fournier: Like any child wants to be treated.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what do you mean by that.
Kiki Fournier: Well, like you could watch movies. You could watch videos, play video games. Eat whatever you want to eat. Candy. Stay up as late as you want. Ride amusement rides, so --
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Are there rules.
Kiki Fournier: Not really.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is there discipline.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague, and foundation.
Mr. Auchincloss: Are the children disciplined, is the question.
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Kiki Fournier: Well, I mean, there's the employees who would frequently interfere with their fun sometimes and tell them it was enough. But, I mean, as far as parents go, no.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would Mr. Jackson, based upon your personal experience, discipline the children.
Kiki Fournier: Sometimes, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Tell me about it.
Kiki Fournier: Like if they got too rowdy at the dinner table, and sometimes I want to say practically have a food fight or something, but he would tell them to behave, kind of stuff like that, and tell them -- you know, if they would get into candy-throwing fights in the theater, and, you know, he was upset about that, and he would, you know, tell them to stop it, or, you know.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did he himself ever engage in that type of conduct.
Kiki Fournier: I never saw that in the theater with Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. In terms of the limits that Mr. Jackson would set upon these children --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; vague; relevance.
Mr. Auchincloss: I haven't finished the question.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. The question is, in terms of -- you've talked about that there were times when Mr. Jackson would say “enough”.
Kiki Fournier: Uh-huh.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you characterize, in terms of the whole latitude Mr. Jackson would give these children in terms of their behavior.
Mr. Mesereau: Vague as to time.
Mr. Auchincloss: During your period of employment. Do you understand the question.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Can you characterize that.
The Court: Well, there's -- I'll overrule the objection. But what's happened is you've kind of spread the question out. So would you rephrase it.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: My question is, we've -- you've talked about Mr. Jackson stepping in when he felt that things have gone too far with the children's behavior in terms of discipline, this type of thing. My question is, can you characterize the type of -- the degree of latitude that he would give children who were guests on the ranch in terms of when he would step in, when discipline, when authority would be provided for these children.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Compound and vague.
The Court: It's compound. Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll strike “authority” from the question. So, same question. When would he step in and discipline these children, in terms of scope. How far would he let them go.
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection. Compound --
The Court: Overruled.
Kiki Fournier: Sometimes they would get pretty rowdy. And he would -- more frequently than not, they would be much more rowdy, you know, and he did let them have, you know, a free hand, so to say, that they could get pretty rambunctious sometimes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would children have extended stay -- would some of these overnight children have extended stays at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what do you mean by -- or what do you consider to be an extended stay.
Kiki Fournier: During the school year, or time when school was on, a couple of weeks.
Mr. Auchincloss: What are the sleeping arrangements for the children. And I'll be specific. Let's talk about in the years -- let's go back to the year -- the time frame of 2002, 2003.
Kiki Fournier: The guests that were there at that time.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes. The children guests.
Kiki Fournier: They had -- the Arvizo children, they had their own units, but --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm speaking generally now. And I will ask you about the Arvizos in just a moment. But generally with the children, what are the sleeping arrangements for the children who spend the night at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Well, usually they had get assigned someplace to asleep, but a lot of times they would stay with Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Now, as far as the assigning of someplace to sleep, tell me about that. How does that work.
Kiki Fournier: Well, typically when the guests came, they would get their own room. And the children would -- you know, it depends on if their parents were there or not, and they would get their room.
Mr. Auchincloss: So they'd get a room assigned to them.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would the children who were assigned to a given room always end up sleeping in that room.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: What do you base that upon.
Kiki Fournier: Well, the beds weren't slept in when we went to go clean the room, so nobody had been there to stay the night, or appeared to be that way.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. As far as these extended guests who were children at the ranch, Mr. Jackson's guests, did you ever notice a behavioral change in these children during the time they were at the ranch.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague; foundation; leading.
Mr. Auchincloss: This is a foundational question.
The Court: Foundation; sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: When you were at the ranch, did you spend time serving the children who were guests there.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you spend time interacting with these children.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you have an opportunity to -- to observe their behavior.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you talk to the children.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you see them playing with Mr. Jackson.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And based upon everything you observed during those -- under those circumstances, where you were interacting and watching these children, were you able to determine whether or not their behavior changed during that time that they were at the ranch.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague; foundation; opinion.
Mr. Auchincloss: It's a proper --
The Court: The objection is overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Auchincloss: You may answer the question.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, and some -- their behavior did change. It seems as if the more free rein they got to do what -- you know, to play, they became very, very wild and in some ways destructive.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was this uncommon.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you see this behavior change -- you mentioned Gavin and Star Arvizo.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know Gavin and Star Arvizo.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: How do you know them.
Kiki Fournier: When I was working at Neverland.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Were they guests of Mr. Jackson.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you observe that behavior change in Gavin and Star while they were at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Tell me about it.
Kiki Fournier: Gavin was always really polite with me, and it just -- I was surprised when I went to go clean his room sometimes that he -- he shared with his brother Star, that it was just -- I mean, it was a mess. It was a mess. And just -- for whatever reason, it was a mess.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And was -- was this something that changed during the time that they were at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: In other words, their room, the room that you had to clean up.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, because in the beginning it wasn't like that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did some of these children return as guests on more than one occasion.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: During your employment -- going back to the big time frame, during your employment at Neverland, did you ever observe Mr. Jackson to form a special -- any especially close relationships with these children.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you characterize whether or not he focused his attention on these children that he formed these relationships with to the exclusion of other children present.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague; leading; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer. Do you want the question read back.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, please.
Mr. Auchincloss: I can simplify the question, I think, Your Honor. I'll rephrase it.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did he pick some kids over other kids to spend his time with and focus his attentions on.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you remember any of their names.
Kiki Fournier: Um --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague as to time.
Mr. Auchincloss: Over your ten-year period.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, I --
Mr. Mesereau: Relevance; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Kiki Fournier: He had -- some of his buddies were like Brett Barnes. Little Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm going to object based on the Court's ruling on 1108.
Mr. Auchincloss: I can go to sidebar on this, Your Honor. We're not going any further than this.
The Court: I'll hold you to that.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Go ahead.
Kiki Fournier: Little Michael. His name was Omar. Frank Cascio. Aldo Cascio. I think Dominick. I get the two confused.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is Dominick a Cascio as well.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is that one of Frank's brothers.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is Aldo one of Frank's brothers.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Any other names.
Kiki Fournier: Like Gavin was another person that he really took in. Macaulay Culkin. I can't really think of anybody else right now.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know an individual by the name of Jimmy Safechuck.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was he one of them.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: How about Jordie Chandler.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, I'm going to object. The Court's ruling on 1108.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Auchincloss: How about a child named Elijah.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: I'd like to make a motion, Your Honor.
The Court: We'll take it up later.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: And were there any boys from Los Olivos, local boys, who he formed a special bond with.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
Kiki Fournier: Not quite as much as the other children, though. I mean, it just seemed like they weren't as close.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Did these individuals that you've named share anything in common.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did -- these individuals that you named, were they of a similar age.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. 1108; vague; and leading.
Mr. Auchincloss: I can go through them and ask what the ages of each one were, if you'd like, approximately.
The Court: The objection is sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. We'll do this serially.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you tell me -- during the time that Mr. Jackson had this special relationship with Mr. Jimmy Safechuck, can you tell me about what Jimmy Safechuck's age was.
Mr. Mesereau: Leading; compound; violates the Court's ruling on 1108. I'd like to make a motion.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: And misstates the evidence.
The Court: It's overruled, too. The first question has to be whether or not she knows the age.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
The Court: If that's -- that's the first question I want you to ask.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
The Court: And then if she can answer that “yes”, you can ask the next question.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Auchincloss: Jimmy Safechuck. Do you know or do you believe you could characterize -- first of all, let me -- do you know what his age was during the period of time that he was a close friend of Mr. Jackson.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Could you characterize -- approximate his age based upon his appearance.
Kiki Fournier: Ten to 13, 14 years old.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. What about -- same question for Mr. Robison. Did you know his age.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Could you characterize it based upon your observations.
Kiki Fournier: About the same age.
Mr. Auchincloss: Omar Bhatti, or Omar, the guy -- you said Omar. What about him, did you know his age.
Kiki Fournier: I think he was 14 when I left, but I'm not sure. 14 or 15.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And how long had he known Mr. Jackson or were you aware of their relationship prior to the time that you left.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
Mr. Auchincloss: I can -- I can follow that up. I'll strike that last question, Your Honor.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Auchincloss: When was the first time that you met Mr. Bhatti. I'm sorry, I'm using -- Mr. Bhatti, Omar, the 14-year-old you knew as “Omar”.
Kiki Fournier: I think 1998.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And if -- and he was about 14 in '93 (sic).
Kiki Fournier: Uh-huh.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was that what you're saying.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, something -- 14 or 15.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Frank Cascio. I think you said that -- how old -- did you know how old Frank Cascio was when you left in '93 (sic).
Kiki Fournier: I think he was 22 or 23.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And you previously testified you first met him in 1991, I think; is that correct.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah, I think it was '91.
Mr. Auchincloss: Aldo Cascio, can you characterize -- do you know how old he was when you left the ranch in '93 (sic).
Kiki Fournier: In 2003.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm sorry, '93. I'm saying “'93”. 2003. That's what I mean.
Kiki Fournier: I think he was 12.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. What do you base that upon.
Kiki Fournier: You kind of get to know the kids a little bit, and I think he was about that age. Somewhere right around there.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. McCaulay Culkin. Do you know how old he was during the period of time that he was a close friend of Mr. Jackson or formed --
Kiki Fournier: No, I really don't.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Can you characterize it, based upon your observations.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Asked and answered. No foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Kiki Fournier: I don't know. Ten, 12, 13 years old.
Mr. Auchincloss: Brett Barnes. Do you know how old he was during the time that he was a close friend --
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- of Mr. Jackson. And same question, follow-up question. Can you characterize his approximate age.
Kiki Fournier: About the same age.
Mr. Auchincloss: 11 to 13.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah.
Mr. Auchincloss: Elijah, do you know how old he was when he had a special or a close friendship with Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, I'm going to object to the characterization. Misstates the evidence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did -- based upon your observations, did the individual you named as Elijah have a relationship with Mr. Jackson.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And how would you characterize it.
Kiki Fournier: Close friendship.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And during the time that he -- this individual named Elijah was a close friend, shared a close friendship with Mr. Jackson, do you know how old he was.
Kiki Fournier: Well, I think Elijah is also a relative.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Is he someone who lives locally.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah. Not too far from here.
Mr. Auchincloss: As far as you know.
Kiki Fournier: Uh-huh.
Mr. Auchincloss: And do you know how old he is today.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know how old -- so does Elijah continue to visit the ranch.
Kiki Fournier: When I left in September he did.
Mr. Auchincloss: And can you characterize, based upon your observations, of his approximate age.
Kiki Fournier: When he started coming there.
Mr. Auchincloss: No, when you left the ranch.
Kiki Fournier: I think he was over 18.
Mr. Auchincloss: How about when he started there -- when you started there.
Kiki Fournier: He was -- he was pretty young, so I would say around eight years old.
Mr. Auchincloss: He was about eight when you first saw him come to the ranch.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you mentioned some local boys from Los Olivos. We didn't talk about how many of them there were. Do you know -- how many boys are you talking about when you say “local boys from Los Olivos”.
Kiki Fournier: Four or five.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were they of different ages or similar ages.
Kiki Fournier: I think they were all in the eighth or ninth grade.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Kiki Fournier: Maybe even the seventh grade. I'm not too sure.
Mr. Auchincloss: During your time as an employee for Mr. Jackson, did you ever observe him to drink alcohol.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you observe him drinking alcohol during the time period that we've talked about, from 2002 through 2003 when you left.
Kiki Fournier: I think so, but I can't say for 100 percent certain. I didn't pay attention.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Do you know what his alcoholic beverages of choice were.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence; no foundation; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: I can lay some foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever observe -- you said you observed him drinking alcohol.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Misstates the evidence, Your Honor.
The Court: It depends on the time frame. She didn't say she remembers him drinking during the time frame you gave. So if we're assuming your question's continuing the time frame --
Mr. Auchincloss: Very well.
The Court: I'll sustain the objection.
Mr. Auchincloss: I understand.
Mr. Auchincloss: Based upon your experiences during the entire time frame you were an employee of the ranch - okay --.
Kiki Fournier: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- you said that you observed Mr. Jackson drinking alcohol.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know what his -- what type of alcohol he would drink.
Kiki Fournier: Wine.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Anything else.
Kiki Fournier: Sometimes he had vodka.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. During your entire employment at Neverland Ranch, have you ever observed children to appear to be intoxicated.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
Mr. Auchincloss: It's a fair question.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: On approximately how many occasions.
Kiki Fournier: I can't say for sure how many times, but I've seen it a couple times.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Have you seen children to be intoxicated in the presence of Michael Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Objecting; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Kiki Fournier: They were acting different. I don't know if they were intoxicated.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did they appear to be intoxicated to you.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Asked and answered; sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you told detectives in this case that you observed children to be intoxicated in the presence of Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Auchincloss: It's impeachment.
Mr. Auchincloss: Go ahead. You may answer.
Kiki Fournier: I believe they were intoxicated, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And is that your belief, your true belief, that these children were, in fact, intoxicated.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Asked and answered; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: You said it happened; you couldn't characterize exactly how many times. Was it more than two. More than three. Can you help me out with a little more specifics.
Kiki Fournier: Three to four times.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Do you remember -- do you remember any specific instances.
Kiki Fournier: One time when I was serving them dinner, they appeared to be intoxicated.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. What -- what time frame are we talking about.
Kiki Fournier: This would be in September, about, of 2003.
Mr. Auchincloss: How many children were at the dinner table.
Kiki Fournier: Four or five.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was Mr. Jackson at the dinner table.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were there any adults at the dinner table.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: And of the four or five children, how many of them appeared to be intoxicated.
Kiki Fournier: At least three of them.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know where those children were immediately before dinner.
Kiki Fournier: I think they were at the ranch house.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what do you base that upon.
Kiki Fournier: Because you kind of can keep tabs about where everybody's at, because you have certain duties you have to do, like clean the rooms when the guests are out and about, so you kind of keep tabs, you know, if they're in the amusement park or the theater, so --
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know if Mr. Jackson was at the ranch house with them.
Kiki Fournier: I don't know that, but I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike, Your Honor. Speculation.
The Court: It's stricken. The jury's admonished to disregard that.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
Mr. Auchincloss: Let's talk about -- do you remember another event where you saw children that appeared to be intoxicated.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
Mr. Auchincloss: That's fresh in your mind, other than the one we just spoke about.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled.
Kiki Fournier: Sitting here right now, I can't remember exactly an incident.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you ever heard the term “Pinocchio's Pleasure Island”.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. She said “Yes”. Go ahead.
Mr. Auchincloss: Where did that term come from.
Kiki Fournier: The story of Pinocchio.
Mr. Auchincloss: But, I mean, the phrase “Pinocchio's Pleasure Island”, where did that come from.
Kiki Fournier: I believe I said that.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what did you say that in reference to.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; 352; foundation; leading. Move to strike. And opinion.
The Court: Overruled.
Kiki Fournier: With the absence of an authority figure, these children became wild. And without their parents there, it became like Pinocchio's Pleasure Island sometimes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Neverland did.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Thank you. I have no further questions.
The Court: Cross-examine.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, please, Your Honor.
Mr. Auchincloss: Your Honor, I'm sorry. There is one question that I forgot to ask this witness, if I may reopen just briefly.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Auchincloss: During the period of time that you were at Neverland, at the end of 2002 -- you came back to work at the end of 2002.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you remember the month.
Kiki Fournier: December.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Do you know, during that time, from December of 2002 until you left in 2003 -- and I believe it was September --
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- where the key for the wine cellar in the arcade was kept at Neverland Ranch.
Kiki Fournier: It was supposed to be in the safe in the housekeepers' break room.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was there a safe in the housekeepers' break room at that time.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And the rule was to keep the key in that safe.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know who had the combination to that safe.
Kiki Fournier: The housekeepers. And I did, too.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Thank you. No further questions
The Court: Cross-examine.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, please, Your Honor.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning.
Kiki Fournier: Good morning.
Mr. Mesereau: Is it pronounced “Fournier”.
Kiki Fournier: That's fine.
Mr. Mesereau: “Fournier”.
Kiki Fournier: “Fournier” is fine.
Mr. Mesereau: My name is Tom Mesereau and I speak for Mr. Jackson.
Kiki Fournier: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: You and I have never spoken before, right.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. During the time that you were employed at Neverland, when did you typically start the day.
Kiki Fournier: It all depended.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have any set schedules from time to time.
Kiki Fournier: We tried setting schedules. But depending on the amount of people that were coming to visit, the guests, I mean, it never worked, because you always needed more people with more hours.
Mr. Mesereau: So, I mean, would you -- let's take a typical week. Would you attempt to abide by a schedule where you might start at 8:00 and finish at 6:00, or something like that.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah. Typically when there was nobody there, we would try to do 9:00 to 5:30. And my schedule was always kind of crazy because I was always going to school at the same time that I was working.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Kiki Fournier: And working around children's babysitting schedules, too, so --
Mr. Mesereau: Could you explain that a little bit. When were you going to school.
Kiki Fournier: Pretty much all the time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What schooling were you doing.
Kiki Fournier: Community college.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Would that be local.
Kiki Fournier: Yes. Here in Santa Maria.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what college was that.
Kiki Fournier: Hancock.
Mr. Mesereau: And what years were you going to Hancock.
Kiki Fournier: I've been going too long. Off and on. I still am going. I just recently dropped my classes, though, but -- so quite a bit.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you start going to Hancock College.
Kiki Fournier: You're going to embarrass me. '87.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I'm not trying to do that. And obviously you were going part time, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes. Some semesters it was part time and other semesters it was full time.
Mr. Mesereau: Typically, would you be going to college at night or during the day.
Kiki Fournier: It depended on what semester it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, when you went full time, were you still working at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: No. I don't think so, no.
Mr. Mesereau: If you can, please tell the jury when you went to college full time.
Kiki Fournier: Probably around 1990, the end of '91, beginning of '91, something like that.
Mr. Mesereau: You've gone sort of part time since then.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah, taking two or three classes.
Mr. Mesereau: And if you take two or three classes, how much time does that require that you be off the premises of Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Just to attend the class or including homework.
Mr. Mesereau: How about the class. Start with that.
Kiki Fournier: Couple hours on certain days.
Mr. Mesereau: And would there be commuting time as well.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what would that be, about, back and forth.
Kiki Fournier: 45 minutes each way, and a two-hour, three-hour class, depending on, and then 45 minutes back.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many days a week did you, on average, attend college part time, would you say.
Kiki Fournier: Two or three days a week.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how about your homework. On a typical week, how many hours a week do you think you'd spend on homework.
Kiki Fournier: 10, 15.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Would you typically do your homework at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Kiki Fournier: But I did keep my note cards in my pocket quite a bit, and I did do my homework as I worked sometimes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. The prosecutor was asking you some questions about titles, and he asked you if Frank Tyson had a title and Dieter had a title. You don't know of any titles these people ever had, do you.
Kiki Fournier: No. Not formally, no.
Mr. Mesereau: And you don't really know what kind of relationship, in terms of business, Frank Tyson had with Michael Jackson, do you.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And you don't really know what kind of a business relationship, if any, Marc Schaffel had with Mr. Jackson, do you.
Kiki Fournier: No, I just knew that he worked for him, and something with the birthday party. That's all I know. But I don't know the title name exactly, no.
Mr. Mesereau: So you knew that Marc Schaffel had something to do with a birthday party for Mr. Jackson, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But you don't really know if he, in any shape or form, was an actual partner or shareholder or employee or anything with Mr. Jackson, right.
Kiki Fournier: No, I don't know that.
Mr. Mesereau: And you don't know whether Mr. Tyson had any type of actual business relationship with Mr. Jackson in terms of employment or partnership or business venture together, do you.
Kiki Fournier: Well, I know that Frank did work for Mr. Jackson and he was out at the ranch for a couple of months.
Mr. Mesereau: But he would be there for a couple of months and then just disappear for six months, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes. But I joked around with him that he was working with the commoners now.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, was it your understanding that he was trying to get in the music business.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah. When you mention it, I remember hearing something about that, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that he was trying to present himself as a promoter of music ventures.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Hearsay; no foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Kiki Fournier: I just remember something about music that Frank was trying to do, but I don't --
Mr. Mesereau: But you don't really know what, in fact, he was doing.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: He could have been puffing up his credentials and his importance and there could be nothing there, right.
Kiki Fournier: True.
Mr. Mesereau: And he never, ever said to you, “I have this particular business association with Mr. Jackson”. He just demonstrated an interest in music and the life that Michael was leading, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, the prosecutor did not mention Marie Nicole, his sister. Do you remember that.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Marie Nicole, Frank Tyson's sister, was a frequent visitor at Neverland, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you say “Frank Tyson”, that's Frank Cascio, right. He seemed to use both names, correct.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: So his sister Marie Nicole stayed there often, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And his brother Aldo stayed there often, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And his father Dominick stayed there often, didn't he.
Kiki Fournier: Not as much as the kids. But, yes, he was there.
Mr. Mesereau: The whole family would visit from time to time, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How about Frank's mother.
Kiki Fournier: She would visit, I would say, a couple times a year. At Christmastime.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Frank impress you as someone who liked to sort of promote himself or brag about his association with Mr. Jackson.
Kiki Fournier: I don't know if he bragged about his association with Mr. Jackson, but he was different.
Mr. Mesereau: He bragged a lot, right.
Kiki Fournier: I can't remember him directly bragging to me. But I know that he liked himself. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. That's good enough. Okay. And did he impress you as the kind of person that would come back and forth with a very irregular pattern. I mean, you just never knew when he would pop up, and then he would just flat out disappear, right.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; vague as to time.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, he would.
Mr. Mesereau: Certainly you could not characterize his being at Neverland as appearing to be some type of pattern where he'd check in or check out, or anything like that, at a particular time like an employee would, right.
Kiki Fournier: No. But I do know for a while he was an employee, because he told me that.
Mr. Mesereau: He told you he was an employee.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: But he didn't tell you who was paying him, did he.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know actually what company was paying him, if one was, right.
Kiki Fournier: No, I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, would you agree, in the world of Michael Jackson, all kinds of characters show up claiming they're his friend, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: All kinds of characters are always showing up trying to act like they're close to Michael Jackson, correct.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Michael Jackson has made the employees aware at Neverland that all kinds of imposters, kooks, nuts, crazy people show up saying, “I'm his friend”, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And they actually try to get in often, don't they.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And -- and all kinds of wild people call up all the time trying to pretend that they are close to Michael, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes. They have called.
Mr. Mesereau: You've seen these people come and go for years, right.
Kiki Fournier: Do you mean breaking in on the property, too.
Mr. Mesereau: Just trying to get close to Michael Jackson.
Kiki Fournier: Oh, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Some line, some yarn they're spinning, whatever it is, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've seen people show up from time to time and look as if they're close to him, and then you never see them again suddenly, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you mentioned Vinnie -- or, excuse me, the prosecutor, or the government mentioned Vinnie Amen. Do you remember.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, he was in his early 20s, as far as you know, wasn't he.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Frank Tyson was in his early 20s, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Vinnie Amen also appeared to try and promote himself as having something to do with the music industry, right.
Kiki Fournier: I never knew what Vinnie was doing.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see him -- did you see him hang out with Frank a fair amount.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah. And they both got desks up in the video library, so --
Mr. Mesereau: Right. Right. But he didn't come on any regular basis, did he. He was another one of these guys who would show up, you'd see him for a while, and then the guy disappears, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you certainly never really knew what business relationship, if any, he had with Michael, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But he was another one of these guys that would just strut around and promote himself because he supposedly knew Michael Jackson, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You've seen a lot of young people in their 20s suddenly come around and act like they know Michael Jackson, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've seen a lot of people say they're music promoters or music agents, or whatever, to claim that they are part of the world of Michael Jackson, correct.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, during the time you've worked at Neverland, you've seen thousands of children, probably, come to Neverland, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Neverland appears to be designed for kids, doesn't it.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You've got an amusement park, right.
Kiki Fournier: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: You've got a zoo, right.
Kiki Fournier: (Nods head up and down.)
Mr. Mesereau: You've got fields where kids could play, right.
Kiki Fournier: (Nods head up and down.)
Mr. Mesereau: You've got a theater where they can go in and get popcorn or ice cream or sodas, right.
Kiki Fournier: (Nods head up and down.)
Mr. Mesereau: And there's a lot of freedom at Neverland regarding what movie you can see, right. Isn't there some big library where you can get videos and play those --
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- movies. You've got the arcade with all sorts of games, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've seen, during the time you've worked there, busloads of kids, impoverished kids from the inner city, for example, coming out to visit Neverland, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And they can be a little wild from time to time, can't they.
Kiki Fournier: Oh, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've seen hundreds of kids come at one time with maybe a couple of adults escorting them around, correct.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And they'll spend the whole day at Neverland, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, were you ever asked to help supervise or organize these busloads of kids that often come out.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Your job was strictly what.
Kiki Fournier: Cleaning and serving.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, sometimes when these hundreds and hundreds of kids will show up from the inner city or from schools, or wherever they're from --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object as mischaracterizes the testimony. We've gone from 100 to hundreds and hundreds.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it.
Mr. Mesereau: You've seen, on a given day, literally hundreds of children show up to spend the day, haven't you.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And -- bless you.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you have also seen this happen quite a bit, haven't you, where, on a given day, buses or carloads of kids come to spend the day.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; compound.
The Court: Overruled.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And typically what will happen is these children will come late morning, spend the whole day, and sometimes into the evening, correct.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you don't typically see Michael Jackson supervising these kids, do you.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: In fact, you almost never see Michael Jackson supervising these kids, right.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And it's your understanding that typically when these busloads or carloads of children show up, that they're with people, adults, who are in charge of them, correct.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you have seen these children from time to time be pretty rambunctious or wild, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You've seen them be a little wild on the rides, right.
Kiki Fournier: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: You've seen them go a little crazy when the elephants come walking through the property, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You've seen sometimes the camel comes walking out with a zookeeper and the children all love that, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You've been -- have you seen the children go to the zoo and go from area to area to see the alpacas and the giraffes and the tiger and the chimps and all that.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've seen children, at times, get out of line, haven't you.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: They start throwing things, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You've seen kids throw stuff from the rides, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you agree that it's to be expected at Neverland that when you have hundreds of children, many of them from impoverished areas, they come to this world of amusement, and zoos, and films, and candy and popcorn and ice cream, and all that stuff, they sometimes go crazy, don't they.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Calls for a conclusion; argumentative.
The Court: It's argumentative. Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Is it unusual for young kids, seven, eight, nine, ten, thirteen, whatever they are, to just start going wild at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: It's not unusual, is it.
Kiki Fournier: No, it's not unusual.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Is it your impression that these busloads of children that periodically come to Neverland just look like they've sort of walked into a fantasy world.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: In fact, in the evening at Neverland, you hear Disney music playing, don't you.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you have trees with lights that almost look like it's Christmastime, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you hear Disney-like voices coming from loud speakers, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've seen many of these children want to stay there into the evening because of this sort of fantasy-like world at night, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, would it be accurate to say that these kinds of trips that children make to Neverland happen quite often.
Kiki Fournier: The busloads.
Mr. Mesereau: Busloads or carloads, however they get there. You have children visiting Neverland a fair amount, don't you.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Is it your impression that Neverland appears to almost be designed as a place for children.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: You have a train, right, that travels around Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And it's almost out of a Walt Disney-type movie, isn't it.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object. 352; relevancy; undue consumption of time.
The Court: Overruled.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you see kids jump on those trains, that train, and travel all around Neverland, don't you.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You have clocks everywhere, don't you.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And they're big clocks that look sort of Walt Disney-like, don't they.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You've got a big clock on a hill that's partly flowers, isn't it.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's where a train station is, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You even have your own little fire station, with a fire truck, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, Mr. Auchincloss mentioned Dieter. And you indicated you had seen him there a few times, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But you never really knew if he had any formal type of business relationship with Mr. Jackson, did you.
Kiki Fournier: The only thing I remember with Dieter is there was a doll, probably like this high, that was porcelain, that was Mr. Jackson; that he had told me that he was working on making those. Because I offered to glue it back together because it broke, and he said it wasn't needed because there was many, many more where that came from.
Mr. Mesereau: So he was telling you he was trying to manufacture dolls.
Kiki Fournier: Something like that. Porcelain -- porcelain figurines.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did he tell you where they were going to be manufactured.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: But if Michael Jackson even knew about this or was involved in it, you don't really have firsthand knowledge, right.
Kiki Fournier: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did Dieter seem like a promoter to you, sort of. Would that be an accurate word.
Kiki Fournier: I guess, yes. He seemed like a businessman. That's how I would describe him.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he seem impressed with himself.
Kiki Fournier: I guess you could say that. Somebody might say that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he talk much.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. If he had any contractual relationship with Mr. Jackson or partnership relation, whatever it could be, you're not aware of it.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he sort of come and then disappear, too.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Let's talk about Ron. Do you know who I'm talking about.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Konitzer is his name, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk to him very much.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he seem like a self-promoter also.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object as calls for a conclusion. Vague as to “self-promoter”.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Mr. Konitzer seem like he was impressed with himself.
Kiki Fournier: I never really talked to either of them, so -- they seemed -- Ron seemed much nicer.
Mr. Mesereau: Nicer than Dieter.
Kiki Fournier: Ronald. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But you never really talked to Ron or Dieter.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And I think it goes without saying, if Ron had any type of formal association with Mr. Jackson, you don't know what it was, right.
Kiki Fournier: No, I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: And didn't he sort of show up at unexpected times and then just not be there for many, many months.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Schaffel would show up once in a while, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And then he would disappear, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: In fact, there were periods where months would go by, you'd never see Schaffel, right.
Kiki Fournier: No, you wouldn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you get the impression that Schaffel was trying to promote himself as someone who knew Michael Jackson.
Kiki Fournier: I don't want to sound odd when I say this, but I think he was an opportunist. I --
Mr. Mesereau: He was one of many opportunists that you bumped into while working at Neverland, right.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer that.
Kiki Fournier: I'm sorry, what was the question.
The Court: I can have it read back to you.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court Reporter: He was one of many opportunists that you bumped into while working at Neverland, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, if Dieter was telling things to Michael Jackson, you don't know what they were, right.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: If Ron was communicating with Michael Jackson about anything specific, you don't know what that was, right.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And if Frank was communicating anything specific to Michael Jackson, you don't really know what that was, right.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: If Vinnie was communicating anything to Michael Jackson, you don't know what that was, right.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Same with Schaffel, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes. Same.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, let me ask the question a slightly different way: If Ron was withholding information from Michael Jackson, you wouldn't know anything about it, right.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: If Dieter was withholding information from Michael Jackson, you wouldn't know anything about that, right.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: If Schaffel was withholding information from Mr. Jackson, you don't know anything about it.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And the same would apply to Frank and Vinnie, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: So what they were really telling him and what they weren't telling him, you don't know.
Kiki Fournier: No, I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: And would it be accurate to just say, in summary, these characters would show up once in a while, disappear, and you never could predict when they would be there or not be there, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, you never could predict.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, in your work, if you can -- if you can generalize it -- I don't know if you can, but let's take 2002 to 2003. When you weren't in school and you weren't doing your homework, and you were at Neverland, how often might you see Michael.
Kiki Fournier: If he was there, a couple of times a day. Sometimes not at all if -- you know, depending on how he was feeling.
Mr. Mesereau: Would Michael disappear for long periods of time and go places that you weren't even aware of.
Kiki Fournier: Do you mean leave the property.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, he would.
Mr. Mesereau: And sometimes he'd be away for a long time, wouldn't he.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Weeks, months, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when he was at Neverland, you didn't really know everything he was doing, right.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see him go into his studio.
Kiki Fournier: The dance studio.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you weren't always in there when he was in his dance studio, were you.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And if he were creating or choreographing or whatever he was doing, you weren't knowledgeable about it, right.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And would you see Michael sometimes in the evening walking around the property.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Sometimes he's alone, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: In fact, you would often see Michael alone walking around, wouldn't you.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: He would take long walks and do his creative work alone, right.
Kiki Fournier: Well, what he was doing on his walk, I don't know. But he would walk.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Michael sitting up in his tree where he likes to think and create.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; assumes facts.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you aware of a tree that Michael Jackson will sometimes just sit in alone so he can create his musical work.
Kiki Fournier: I'm aware of the tree.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know where it is. Right near the main house, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: It's in the front.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. Clearly, you would not keep tabs on where Michael was on any given moment when he was at Neverland, right.
Kiki Fournier: No, but, I mean, you kind of had an idea of where he was so you could do what you needed to do, you know. If you needed to mop the floor or something, are they going to watch a movie for two hours so you can get this thing done, that kind of thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you mentioned someone named Joe Marcus.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What is his title, if he has one.
Kiki Fournier: Ranch manager, I think.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you typically report to him.
Kiki Fournier: No, I would report to the house supervisor first.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And was it your understanding the house supervisor would report to Mr. Marcus.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And would you often get direction about what you are supposed to do from the house supervisor.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you ever get it from Mr. Marcus.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: In a typical day where you do your work at Neverland, do you pretty much start the day knowing what your assignments are.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah, you do. You know, if there's guests there, your duties change. And if there's nobody there, you know, it's just cleaning. But when there's guests there, it's serving the guests.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, the prosecutor for the government tried to suggest that Michael Jackson is on top of all the details at Neverland. Do you remember that.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Isn't it true that there are months where Michael isn't even around.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you don't get your direction from Michael specifically during those months, do you.
Kiki Fournier: No. But I believe that he laid it out the way that he wanted it. I mean, he wants us to take care of the house when he goes away and that kind of thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, sure. There are general duties that everybody has that's employed at Neverland, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You've got a zookeeper who's told to take care of the zoo, right. You've got people in charge of the amusement rides, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You've got someone in charge of the theater, right.
Kiki Fournier: Not really in charge of the theater. That's kind of what we did, so --
Mr. Mesereau: But someone was certainly in charge of making sure it's cleaned and that kind of thing, right.
Kiki Fournier: That would be us, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So the house supervisor would essentially be in charge of what you did at the theater.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And you certainly had a general responsibility to make sure that theater was clean, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And would it be -- would it be, oh, accurate to say that when that theater was filled with kids watching a movie, they might leave and leave things a little messy.
Kiki Fournier: Absolutely.
Mr. Mesereau: And would you see popcorn everywhere and things like that.
Kiki Fournier: Yep.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were one of the people who had to clean that, right.
Kiki Fournier: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. So you've got a fairly large staff there, don't you.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it be accurate to say, on average, during the time that you worked at Neverland, there may have been 50 or 60 employees.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Because you've got security people also, don't you.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And would you be in touch with the security people on a regular basis.
Kiki Fournier: You'd see them throughout the day, so -- but we wouldn't necessarily report anything to them. I mean, unless there was a problem.
Mr. Mesereau: Right. Let me know if this is an accurate statement: You've got an average of 50 to 60 employees with different tasks that have been spelled out for them, right.
Kiki Fournier: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Whether it's security, the main house, the zoo, whatever it is, right.
Kiki Fournier: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: You've got people with various levels of supervisory authority, right.
Kiki Fournier: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've got long periods where Michael isn't even around, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Neverland seems to run even when Michael isn't there, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Even when Michael is there, there are periods where he seems to be off alone doing whatever he's doing, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When you said that he's a detail person, you weren't trying to suggest that Michael spends 15 hours a day supervising everybody's tasks, did you.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. The answer was “No”. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: In fact, most of the discussion about what people are going to do on a daily basis is not with Michael, right.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, once in a while, because he's the owner, he does directly tell someone his wishes, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Because that's where -- he lives there and his family lives there, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But most of the time, wouldn't you discuss your daily responsibilities and obligations with people other than Michael.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, how many employees, would you say, are assigned to the main house.
Kiki Fournier: When I was there, and when I left in September, there was five.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And during the many years that you've worked at Neverland, do people's responsibilities typically remain or do people shift into other types of jobs from time to time.
Kiki Fournier: They shift from time to time.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, have you shifted a little bit.
Kiki Fournier: A little bit sometimes, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What kind of shifting have you done.
Kiki Fournier: I helped with the kids a little bit. But very little.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you mean Michael's children.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Could you tell the jury their names.
Kiki Fournier: Prince and Paris and Blanket.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And their ages.
Kiki Fournier: I think Prince is about eight, and Paris is about seven. And the little one is two now, I think.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what have your responsibilities been with the three children.
Kiki Fournier: Well, I would just watch them briefly, you know, when the nanny was busy doing something. And -- you know, or take them out to the zoo. One time I did, you know, so -- and watch Paris when she was little for one night.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. The prosecutor for the government asked you a question about children not staying in their assigned rooms. Remember that.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said something to the effect that sometimes a child would have a room, I imagine in the guest units, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would see the bed not made, right.
Kiki Fournier: Do you mean not used or not made.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me, not made. Let me strike that. Wrong choice of words. You would sometimes come in and see a room that just didn't appear to be used, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And I think what the government prosecutor was suggesting was the kids must have been somewhere during the evening, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But I'm curious. You also said that you looked at Gavin's room and it often was a mess, right.
Kiki Fournier: Toward the end, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Suggesting that Gavin was staying in the room, right.
Kiki Fournier: I believe it was he and his brother that were staying in there.
Mr. Mesereau: And they made a real mess out of that room, didn't they.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Quite often, didn't they.
Kiki Fournier: Toward the end, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And they were known -- they had a reputation at Neverland for having disciplinary issues with the staff, didn't they.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Calls for hearsay and calls for a conclusion; improper characterization of the evidence.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Kiki Fournier: Not really with me. I mean, Gavin was always respectful with me. Always. Star could be a little bit ornery. And Davellin, we'd talk every once in a while. But I never experienced any problems.
Mr. Mesereau: But you knew other employees did, didn't you.
Kiki Fournier: Well, I knew that they were becoming demanding, yeah, but I don't really remember a specific incident.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when you say you learned that they were becoming demanding, could you tell the jury what you mean.
Kiki Fournier: Well, every night we'd make dinner, and he always wanted something other than what was made for dinner.
Mr. Mesereau: Who was this, now.
Kiki Fournier: Star.
Mr. Mesereau: Would make demands on you personally.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah. They'd want certain kinds of foods made at certain times. And usually it was chicken noodle soup, which wasn't that difficult, but --
Mr. Mesereau: Would you get upset at those demands.
Kiki Fournier: Honestly, I got irritated sometimes because of the demand. There was so much to do. There was so much to do, and I -- when the kids got a little ornery, it was -- it was a lot. It really was. It was -- and I felt like there was no respect.
Mr. Mesereau: And they seemed to sort of get very spoiled there at some point, didn't they.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And weren't there complaints about their throwing candy.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: There were complaints about their throwing objects from the amusement rides.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: There were complaints from other employees that they were almost acting like they owned the place.
Kiki Fournier: I don't remember that one, but I know that they were getting a little ornery.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember their crashing carts.
Kiki Fournier: All of them crashed the carts. I don't remember specifically if they did or not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, did you ever learn that they were caught with adult material.
Mr. Auchincloss: 403 ruling.
Mr. Mesereau: I think the Court said I could ask.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn that.
Kiki Fournier: No, I don't remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn that they were caught masturbating in the unit.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. You never had any discussion with anyone about that.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Do you recall learning that they had driven off the property at one point into town.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear about that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Kiki Fournier: I know that they left with Chris Carter one time.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't have any knowledge of their going into town on their own, do you.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever see the Arvizo family riding around in a limousine.
Kiki Fournier: I know that they were taken in the -- Mr. Jackson's vehicles sometimes, so --
Mr. Mesereau: And when you say “Mr. Jackson's vehicles”, please tell the jury what kind of vehicles you're talking about.
Kiki Fournier: A lot.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. No, what -- describe the vehicles, if you would.
Kiki Fournier: Rolls Royces. I know that he owns a limousine. There's a black Navigator. So just different cars.
Mr. Mesereau: And it was -- was it your understanding that these kids would demand that they be taken places in those vehicles.
Kiki Fournier: I didn't know about that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you see their mother very much.
Kiki Fournier: No, not that much. She pretty much stayed in her guest unit.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see her walking on the premises.
Kiki Fournier: Not really, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever see her at the theater.
Kiki Fournier: Can't remember if I've seen her at the theater or not.
Mr. Mesereau: How about in the main house.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You've seen her in the main house a lot, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah, she would come in there and eat dinner in there sometimes.
Mr. Mesereau: And she'd be in there in the morning also, wasn't she.
Kiki Fournier: Usually I wasn't there that much in the morning.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you've indicated, I think - correct me if I'm wrong - that there were times you cooked for the Arvizo family, right.
Kiki Fournier: Did I cook for them. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember Star pulling a knife on you in the kitchen.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when did Star pull a knife on you in the kitchen.
Kiki Fournier: Do you mean about what month it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Month or year, if you remember.
Kiki Fournier: Well, it was during that time period between -- I want to say it's, like, February. I think.
Mr. Mesereau: And when Star pulled a knife on you in the kitchen, were you preparing food.
Kiki Fournier: I was doing the dishes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And was he trying to cook in the kitchen.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: That was against the rules, wasn't it.
Kiki Fournier: Well, it's just not really wise to have a child in there cooking with everybody, because it's kind of -- plus, you know, you've got things that you have to do, so you have to work also.
Mr. Mesereau: Uh-huh.
Kiki Fournier: So --
Mr. Mesereau: Now, the prosecutor for the government asked you questions about where the key to the wine cellar was supposed to be, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And I believe you indicated it was supposed to be in a safe.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But you don't know if there were periods of time when it was out of that safe, do you.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you often in the wine cellar.
Kiki Fournier: Not often, but I've been down there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And could you please describe for the jury what the wine cellar looks like.
Kiki Fournier: It's kind of like a cave in some ways, I want to say. It's got rock walls. And it's kind of like walking into, like, a basement or a cellar. And it's got a main room, and there used to be a table in there. And they have -- there's wine on the wall. And there's like another area with, like, a little sink and a refrigerator and a freezer in there, too. And there's hard liquor in the cabinet in the wine cellar where the kitchen is.
Mr. Mesereau: Sometimes that wine cellar was open, wasn't it.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You found it open, didn't you.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; vague as to time.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase, Your Honor.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: During the time you worked at Neverland, you sometimes found that wine cellar open, didn't you.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, it wasn't your responsibility to keep it locked, was it.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And isn't alcohol kept in the kitchen.
Kiki Fournier: Yes. But on the wine cellar, it wasn't our responsibility to keep it locked. But when we left, you know, we locked it. We didn't leave it open, I mean, if we went down there for a purpose.
Mr. Mesereau: But there certainly were many times, for whatever reason you happened to be in that area, and saw that it was open, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes. If you went down there and checked the door, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. Okay. Were you at -- excuse me. Let me rephrase that. Were you working at Neverland during the period of, say, February 1st, 2003, to March 12th, 2003.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you working full time.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you going to college then.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And during that period of time how often would you go to college.
Kiki Fournier: I think it was three days a week.
Mr. Mesereau: So would you be following the schedule that you defined a little earlier in our questioning.
Kiki Fournier: The radical schedule. Yeah, I would come in later. I would come in late because that way I could get my kids off to school and sleep a little bit, too, so that way I could do the late shift again.
Mr. Mesereau: And it was a 45-minute drive into town to go to school.
Kiki Fournier: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And a couple hours at school and then 45 minutes back, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And then you would do your homework during the schedule you talked about earlier, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah, here and there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. You have people at Neverland who were in charge of security, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And about how many people are employed at Neverland who are involved in security.
Kiki Fournier: There used to be a lot more. But I don't know. Like when I left, I want to say like seven, eight, something like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, at one point you said that towards the end of their stay at Neverland -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. Toward the end of the Arvizos' stay at Neverland, you noticed that Gavin and Star's room was consistently messy, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's the room in the guest quarters, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When you say “towards the end”, what do you mean.
Kiki Fournier: Before they didn't come back, really.
Mr. Mesereau: Would that have been, say, a week before they didn't come back. Two weeks.
Kiki Fournier: Two weeks probably.
Mr. Mesereau: So approximately two weeks before the Arvizos left for good, you noticed that Gavin and Star's room was consistently messy, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that indicated to you that they were staying in that room, right.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; calls for a conclusion.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Kiki Fournier: I thought they were. But I don't know if they were or not.
Mr. Mesereau: But there was a period where you would often not see their rooms a mess, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes. I mean, they were sloppy. But towards the end, their room was just -- things were broken and it was -- it was a mess.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, during this last couple of weeks that they were at Neverland, when you say their room was a mess, what did you do when you discovered this.
Kiki Fournier: I was with Maria one time and -- when we discovered it, and we decided to talk to the house manager and let him know, because it was getting really bad.
Mr. Mesereau: And during those last two weeks that the Arvizos were at Neverland, what specifically did you notice about Gavin and Star's room.
Kiki Fournier: That it was just torn apart.
Mr. Mesereau: They really trashed it.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Please tell the jury how they trashed it, if you know.
Kiki Fournier: I can't say for sure what had happened, but there was things spilled. There was glasses broken. The refrigerator was a mess, too. Every unit has its own refrigerator, and it was -- it just looked like somebody had just gone in there like a tornado and -- like a whirlwind.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever talk to Gavin or Star about that.
Kiki Fournier: No, I don't think I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Kiki Fournier: Because it wasn't my place to.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your responsibility simply to clean it.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said you made a complaint to somebody.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who did you make a complaint to.
Kiki Fournier: The house manager.
Mr. Mesereau: And who was that.
Kiki Fournier: Jesus Salas.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you tell Jesus Salas that they had broken things in the guest unit.
Kiki Fournier: Maria was with me, and I think he even came in and saw the mess. I can't remember for sure. But I know that he -- somehow he knew about it.
Mr. Mesereau: And was their bedroom a complete mess.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was the bed a mess.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What was broken.
Kiki Fournier: There was some glasses in the rooms that they have. Every room has a couple of glasses in it, and some wine glasses and that kind of thing, and the glasses were broken. So I don't remember which glass in specific it was, but there was broken glass, and there was no attempt to clean up the mess.
Mr. Mesereau: Was anything else wrong with their room during those last two weeks the Arvizos were at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Not anything else that I can think of. Just about how -- how it was just -- there was no care as to how the room was kept. It was like that.
Mr. Mesereau: So the bed was a mess, right.
Kiki Fournier: I remember -- if memory serves me correct, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: The chairs were a mess.
Kiki Fournier: The furniture was moved, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there garbage around.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Broken glass around.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did it look like furniture had been damaged to you.
Kiki Fournier: I don't know if it had been damaged, but it had been moved.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there food around.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did it look like they'd spilled drinks around.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How about the bathroom. Did they make a mess out of the bathroom.
Kiki Fournier: I think the door was shut.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. Did you ever mention any of this to their mother Janet.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: All right.
Kiki Fournier: It wasn't my place.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you didn't think it was your responsibility to talk to them about this, right.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You just felt it was your responsibility to clean it, and report it, right.
Kiki Fournier: I just thought it might be good for somebody to know what was happening.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you didn't ever directly report this to Michael Jackson, right.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You just reported it to the person in the chain of employment that you were supposed to report to.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you discuss it with anyone else besides Jesus Salas.
Kiki Fournier: Maria.
Mr. Mesereau: And who is Maria.
Kiki Fournier: Maria Gomez, another housekeeper.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know if she did anything about it.
Kiki Fournier: Well, like I said, I think that it was she and I together that went and told Jesus.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Together you did that.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah, I believe it was together, because I remember being in the room with her also when -- I think we went to go clean it together.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was your complaint an oral complaint, or was it in writing.
Kiki Fournier: No, it was verbal.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. To your knowledge, did Jesus Salas do anything about it.
Kiki Fournier: I don't know what he did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you just make one complaint.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, I mentioned security at Neverland. There was a lot of concern about security at Neverland, wasn't there.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You yourself, for example, were worried about Michael Jackson's fans, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the sheriffs you were worried about his sicko fans coming onto the property and being a threat to people, right.
Kiki Fournier: Only some of them.
Mr. Mesereau: Only some of them.
Kiki Fournier: Yes. Not all fans are sicko.
Mr. Mesereau: No, I didn't mean that. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: But you were worried about the fact that Mr. Jackson is so popular around the world that, as you described it, sicko fans could provide a security threat, right.
Kiki Fournier: Well, yeah, there was one incident that stood out in my mind about a fan that was quite unstable, would seem to me. And people like that don't really make me feel comfortable.
Mr. Mesereau: And did this person try to get on the property.
Kiki Fournier: Many of them have, yes. Actually, one of them did. A couple of them did.
Mr. Mesereau: And what happened.
Kiki Fournier: Well --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object as to relevancy and time.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: The property at Neverland is approximately 2800 acres, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You have fence around the property for the most part, don't you.
Kiki Fournier: Split rail fence, I think it's called.
Mr. Mesereau: Split rail fences that actually a child could almost get in and out if they wanted, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When you say “split rail”, you mean essentially a wooden post and a couple of wooden rails, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Adults or children typically could go in or out if they wanted, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And very close to those split rail fences are roads, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Roads where cars speed back and forth, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You've got houses on Figueroa Road right across from Neverland, don't you.
Kiki Fournier: A school is, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: There's a school. And the school isn't far from those split rail fences, is it.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And would it be fair to say that children at Neverland could easily go through a fence onto a road where cars are speeding.
Kiki Fournier: Well, it's a long ways from the main house, but --
Mr. Mesereau: It could happen, couldn't it.
Kiki Fournier: If you kept walking, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you aware of any moments when children from the school tried to get into Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: No, I'm not familiar with any of those.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. To your knowledge, do the security people sort of travel around the perimeter of Neverland once in a while, just to make sure nobody's on the property when they shouldn't be.
Kiki Fournier: Well, I know that they make perimeter checks, and they would check around the property and make sure that there's no parked cars or that kind of thing out on the property, and then go all throughout the whole property, too.
Mr. Mesereau: But typically when somebody enters Neverland, they go to a closed gate, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And they stick their arm out of the car and push a button, right.
Kiki Fournier: Oh, to get into the front gate.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And they then hear, through an intercom, a voice asking who they are, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And then if they're permitted in, these wooden gates open and they can drive in, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But wouldn't you agree that not too far away from that entrance are those split rail fences.
Kiki Fournier: Well, it's right next to it, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And realistically, if children wanted to go in or out, or run across the road or dart across the road, there's always a danger of that, isn't there.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah, if they wanted to get out from the fence, they can. There's no question of that.
Mr. Mesereau: How many children go to the school across the street, if you know.
Kiki Fournier: I think a couple hundred.
Mr. Mesereau: And has that school been there during the time that you've worked at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember Michael Jackson having a blood drive at Neverland in approximately December of 2002.
Kiki Fournier: I remember there was a blood drive for Gavin, but I don't remember when.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you a police report on that with a date.
Kiki Fournier: Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes, you may.
Mr. Auchincloss: May I see it, Counsel.
Kiki Fournier: I think it was donated, but I don't remember right now. I probably guessed right there, around about, but I can't say for sure right now.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: I have to ask you a few questions that I'm required to ask.
Kiki Fournier: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to review that page of the police report.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, that section.
Mr. Mesereau: And does it refresh your recollection about when this blood drive may have occurred.
Kiki Fournier: No, I'm sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you think it was 2002.
Kiki Fournier: No, I don't, because Gavin came back, and when he came back, I hardly recognized him, because he looked so much better. Because before, he was so thin and so frail. So I joked around about that with him, but I don't think it was in December of 2002 when the blood drive was.
Mr. Mesereau: When do you think it was, if -- if you know.
Kiki Fournier: I don't remember. I really don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you involved in that blood drive.
Kiki Fournier: No. They needed O negative blood, not AB. I thought it was O negative.
Mr. Mesereau: But your understanding was that Michael Jackson had organized a blood drive for Gavin at Neverland, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you involved in helping set that up.
Kiki Fournier: No. I remember I had school at that time, too, so I couldn't be there for that.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you there for any of that blood drive.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, were other employees at Neverland participating in helping set up a blood drive.
Kiki Fournier: I don't know if the employees did or not, but, I mean, I'm sure they probably made food for the people to eat, and the employees would have helped that way, and set up the tent and got utensils to eat and that kind of thing.
Mr. Mesereau: So there was a tent set up for the blood drive for Gavin.
Kiki Fournier: I believe so, if I remember correctly. Not that I saw it, but I heard.
The Court: Counsel, let's take our break.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Counsel.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor. Oops. Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you enjoying this.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. We'll keep going, then. All right. When you first started working at Neverland, did you go through a training-type program.
Kiki Fournier: My supervisor trained me.
Mr. Mesereau: And who was that.
Kiki Fournier: Gayle Goforth.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what did the training consist of.
Kiki Fournier: Just taking me around and showing me what my duties would be.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Bailiff Cortez: They can't hear.
Kiki Fournier: Is that better.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
Bailiff Cortez: That's fine.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And has your job changed during the time you were working at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Basically stayed the same.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you go through any other training programs while you were at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: We did CPR training.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Kiki Fournier: Otherwise not for the job, no, not that I can think of.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You were interviewed by the Santa Barbara sheriffs a couple of times, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And they asked you if you were aware of the Arvizos feeling that they were confined at Neverland and couldn't leave. Do you remember that discussion.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: I don't remember that discussion. You asked her, but -- I'll sustain the objection.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall, in your interview with the Santa Barbara Sheriffs, discussing the question of whether or not the Arvizos were free to leave Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But you basically laughed at the idea, didn't you.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Calls for a conclusion; no foundation
The Court: Argumentative. It's sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't you tell the sheriffs, “How hard is it to leave. Just walk”.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. It's argumentative; calls for a conclusion.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer. Do you want that question read back.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, sir, please.
The Court Reporter: Didn't you tell the sheriffs, “How hard is it to leave. Just walk”.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, something along those lines.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And in your opinion, the idea that they would be confined, confined at Neverland, is ridiculous, right.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Argumentative; calls for a conclusion; no foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: In your police interview, or, excuse me, one of them -- actually, it's the sheriffs. In your sheriffs' interview, you described the Arvizo children as destructive, didn't you.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You were asked questions about Mr. Jackson's relationship with the Cascio family in your sheriffs' interview, right.
Kiki Fournier: I can't remember, but I'm sure you'll tell me if I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And you indicated that Michael was a close friend of the entire family, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Including the parents and the children, the boys and the girl, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, the prosecutor for the government asked you some questions about other young boys, as he put it, that Mr. Jackson knew through the years, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And would you agree that, like most people, Mr. Jackson sometimes became a closer friend of some families rather than others, correct.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And the so-called “young boys” the prosecutor referred to would come with their families, correct.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: In fact, Jimmy Safechuck was married at Neverland, wasn't he. Do you remember that.
Kiki Fournier: I didn't even know he was married.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. McCaulay Culkin's family would come, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did it seem -- let me rephrase that. You've said that during the time you've worked at Neverland, thousands of children have visited, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But certainly there are families that Michael Jackson, in your opinion, was closer to --
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- than others, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: There are friendships he's developed through the years which seem to have lasted for many years, correct.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And like any other human being, some families would visit periodically, rather than others, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: There would be many celebrity-type visitors to Neverland from time to time, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You would see the Brandos.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who else would you see.
Kiki Fournier: Elizabeth Taylor. Chris Tucker. I think Chris Rock was there. I don't know the names of the basketball players.
Mr. Mesereau: And did the people you just identified seem to be close friends of Michael Jackson.
Kiki Fournier: I wouldn't -- as far as I could say, I don't think that all of them were close friends, but some of them were, I think.
Mr. Mesereau: And from time to time, there would be various functions at Neverland, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And, for example, you would see tents put up for a special event, right.
Kiki Fournier: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Please tell the jury what special events you recall seeing at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Weddings, birthday parties, that kind of things.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you get involved in those events.
Kiki Fournier: Serving and cleaning, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Is that something you looked forward to.
Kiki Fournier: No. I still don't.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: Would it typically vary from month to month how many functions, as you described, would take place.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, it would vary.
Mr. Mesereau: And sometimes you would have hundreds of visitors for these functions, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And where would all these people park.
Kiki Fournier: They would park down by the amusement park. It depends on where the tent was set up. Or they would park in front of the gates that are inside Neverland with a big sign that says “Neverland” over it. There's a new parking lot there.
Mr. Mesereau: And would you agree that most people who visit Neverland like to walk through the main house, don't they.
Kiki Fournier: Walk through the main house.
Mr. Mesereau: If they can.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: They like to see all the artwork and the antiques and the way Michael Jackson has decorated his home, correct.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And isn't it typical that visitors will make a request, “Can we see the main house”.
Kiki Fournier: Sometimes they have, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And is it your understanding that quite often Mr. Jackson will allow someone to take them through.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: He allows that a lot, doesn't he.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Sounds like you don't think he should, right.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you think he's too nice to a lot of people who visit Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Sometimes, yes, I -- sometimes I got a little concerned, but it's not my place.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You thought he was being too generous and nice to visitors, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes. And sometimes -- yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When did you notice the Arvizo children becoming so destructive.
Kiki Fournier: Towards the end of their stay, in the beginning of 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: The beginning of 2003.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah, towards the end of their stay in the beginning, 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you make any complaints other than the one you just described.
Kiki Fournier: Not that I can remember, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, I was asking you a question, and I think I got sidetracked a little bit. It had to do with the availability of alcohol in the kitchen. Remember that question.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And isn't alcohol found in the kitchen from time to time.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah, I think by the sink to the left, there was a cabinet that did have some alcohol in it.
Mr. Mesereau: And that generally wasn't locked, right.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you find alcohol once in a while in the refrigerator unit, you know, with the see-through glass.
Kiki Fournier: Yes. We would put that in there.
Mr. Mesereau: Going back to these functions that go on at Neverland, sometimes Mr. Jackson isn't even there, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, sometimes he's not there.
Mr. Mesereau: So there will be a function for hundreds of people, there will be a tent, there will be staff, there will be food, there will be parking privileges, and Mr. Jackson won't even be at Neverland, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah, that's right.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you never saw Mr. Jackson give alcohol to a minor, did you.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you said that you saw three kids at the table one time that you were concerned might be intoxicated, you never saw Mr. Jackson give them anything.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, are you aware -- excuse me. Let me just limit this to a time period. Let's say 2002, 2003. You were aware that Mr. Jackson had some medical problems from time to time, correct.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would see his doctor, for example, come to Neverland once in a while, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were aware that he needed injections.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And he would, at times, have a reaction to those injections; do you remember that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: When you said -- you used the term “Pinnochio's Pleasure Island” in response to the government prosecutor. Were you suggesting that you thought Michael Jackson himself should supervise kids more personally.
Kiki Fournier: No, I don't think that he should. I mean, how could he supervise that many children. There needed to be more people to supervise them, or their parents.
Mr. Mesereau: So were you -- excuse me. Let me rephrase it. Were you meaning to be a little more critical of their parents when you talked about kids being out of control.
Kiki Fournier: Well, yes, that too. Because some kids -- I mean, well, some parents won't discipline even their own children, so sometimes the parents didn't even help. But I think it's just sometimes the character of the person, too, because some of them were just crazy.
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah. Did you ever voice your concerns that parents should be paying more attention to their kids at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: I might have, over the years, to some of my co-workers. But I can't think of anything right now. The thing that really worried me that I can say that I thought about, too, is that there's a lake there. And I worried more about the lake than I did about the pool. If you leave these children unsupervised, I mean, they could fall in the lake. And that's just always what concerned me more.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would see lots of children that you thought should be better supervised at Neverland during periods when Michael wasn't even there, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And your understanding was he had allowed people to bring children to Neverland, enjoy the premises, and when he wasn't even around, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When that would happen, was it your understanding that Mr. Jackson was relying on the Neverland personnel to try and supervise or keep control.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Foundation. Personal knowledge as to what Mr. Jackson knew.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Kiki Fournier: I'm sorry, could you say that again.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When large numbers of children would visit Neverland with whoever came with them --
Kiki Fournier: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: -- and Mr. Jackson was not there, was it your understanding that Neverland staff or employees were supposed to supervise.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, to some degree. And sometimes there was some children that got really out of control. Like, for instance, I think sometimes we would put the golf carts away or put the quads away, because some of them just -- they would probably have been a danger to themselves. So in that way, we did take a little bit more authority, probably, than we should have sometimes, but --
Mr. Mesereau: When you say you would take authority, do you mean that you would sort of, in your mind, substitute for a parent almost.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah. Sometimes, I think, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And are you talking about situations where, say, a lot of kids would come on buses, say, from the inner city, and in your opinion there would be too few adults taking care of them.
Kiki Fournier: Typically those seemed to be better supervised than the kids that were left at Neverland without their parents.
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Kiki Fournier: Because if Mr. Jackson wasn't there and their parents weren't there, it kind of would fall on us, and --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were there rules and procedures in effect at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Somewhat, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And were they written up, to your knowledge.
Kiki Fournier: As far as -- well, there was an employee handbook.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, did the employee handbook discuss what to do in situations where you had visitors.
Kiki Fournier: I can't remember. Sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: When is the last time you looked at that handbook.
Kiki Fournier: Probably '92, '93.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. That was quite a while ago. All right. Now, in your interviews with the Santa Barbara Sheriffs, you often described Mr. Jackson as acting like a big kid.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But he seemed to enjoy playing with kids, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: He seemed to enjoy the whole spirit of Neverland being to have fun with kids, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, the whole thing of eating too much candy and riding the rides to get sick.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see Mr. Jackson do that.
Kiki Fournier: No, I'm not saying that he did that, but I'm saying that's the idea.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see Mr. Jackson eat a lot of candy.
Kiki Fournier: Sometimes.
Mr. Mesereau: How about on the rides.
Kiki Fournier: No, I didn't see that.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last work at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: September of 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you worked for, what, 12 years or so.
Kiki Fournier: Off and on, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Off and on.
Kiki Fournier: Off and on.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You never saw the Arvizo kids look like they were intoxicated, did you.
Kiki Fournier: No. I don't remember them specifically being intoxicated. I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't remember you looking at their behavior and saying to yourself, “They look intoxicated to me”, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah, no, they --
Mr. Mesereau: That never happened, right.
Kiki Fournier: No, I didn't really ever pay attention.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Kiki Fournier: So I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: But just based on the times you were there, and the work you did and what you saw, you don't recall ever seeing Gavin Arvizo, Star Arvizo, or Davellin Arvizo intoxicated, right.
Kiki Fournier: Well, like when Star put the knife in my back, I mean, was he intoxicated. I don't know. Was he just playing around. I don't know. So --
Mr. Mesereau: Let me just rephrase it, then. To the best of your knowledge, during the time you observed the Arvizo children at Neverland, you never thought they were intoxicated, right.
Kiki Fournier: I didn't think so, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever, in your mind, smell alcohol on the Arvizo kids.
Kiki Fournier: No. I never paid attention.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you mentioned a party in August of 2003, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that had something to do with Schaffel, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that Schaffel hired special staff for that party.
Kiki Fournier: I knew that he was doing something with it. If he hired somebody, I don't remember. But I know that there was a lot of volunteers working there.
Mr. Mesereau: People that normally didn't work at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And was it your understanding that Schaffel was trying to promote a particular artist.
Kiki Fournier: I don't know that.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know what the purpose of the party was, right.
Kiki Fournier: It was a birthday party, and I didn't quite ever figure it out.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You don't know if Schaffel, for example, was promoting tickets on radio stations in Los Angeles, do you.
Kiki Fournier: No. But I remember a radio station being there, I think, yeah. But I don't know what the whole purpose was.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it a Los Angeles radio station, if you know.
Kiki Fournier: I can't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Kiki Fournier: I think it was, though, when I think back. I want to say it was KISS FM, but I'm not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that more people showed for that party than the staff at Neverland anticipated.
Kiki Fournier: Yes. That was typical.
Mr. Mesereau: Typical of parties.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when you're planning a party -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. When a party is going to take place at Neverland, how does the word get out to the staff.
Kiki Fournier: It depends on how big it is or if there's going to be a caterer. I mean, there's -- there's different ways that we would find out.
Mr. Mesereau: Is a memorandum, for example, a memo --
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- typically generated.
Kiki Fournier: Not -- I don't want to say “typically”, but it has been, or else it was communicated verbally from a supervisor.
Mr. Mesereau: And would a supervisor typically come to someone like you and say there's going to be a big event on such and such a date at such and such a time.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And would you be asked to contribute in some way.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And were your jobs at these events typically the same or did you have different things to do, depending on the event.
Kiki Fournier: Cleaning and serving.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where would all the food typically be cooked.
Kiki Fournier: It depends on if there was a caterer or not. Sometimes it could be done at the barbecue area. Sometimes in the kitchen. Or if there's a caterer, they could cook it outside. Or there was a barbecue out by the theater. So there was different places.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember, in February of 2003, a number of entertainment executives from New York visited Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Oh, guy, I remember there was some special guests, but I don't remember who.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember Ed Bradley from --
Kiki Fournier: 60 Minutes.
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You do remember him coming.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when that was.
Kiki Fournier: No. I can't say. I think it was after the documentary aired.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if the Arvizos were visiting at that point in time.
Kiki Fournier: I think they were. My stomach's growling. I'm sorry. (Laughter.)
Juror No. 8: Do you want some candy. Do you want some.
Kiki Fournier: I have some. Thank you.
Bailiff Narron: You can't do that, ma'am.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you speak to Mr. Bradley.
Kiki Fournier: No, I don't think he spoke directly to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember who he was with.
Kiki Fournier: Other camera people. The crew. I think there was some other -- somebody else from 60 Minutes that was there, too.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet a Mr. Jack Sussman, for example.
Kiki Fournier: I can't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you see Mr. Bradley walking around the property.
Kiki Fournier: I remember him being in the kitchen. And I remember serving him lunch or setting out the food, a buffet for them.
Mr. Mesereau: And where was the buffet.
Kiki Fournier: In the kitchen, on the -- what do you call it. A bar.
Mr. Mesereau: So Mr. Bradley and whoever he was with were in the main house, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you don't know what time of day they were in there, do you.
Kiki Fournier: No, but I want to say it was 11:00, 12 o'clock, something like that, 1:00.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And one of your responsibilities was to prepare a meal for them.
Kiki Fournier: No, I didn't have to cook it. I would just have to help serve it and -- yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And were they eating at the main dining table.
Kiki Fournier: Um, I think -- I know they ate in the kitchen. And they might have eaten at the dining table also, but I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall Gavin and Star Arvizo visiting Neverland with their father David.
Kiki Fournier: You know, in the back of my mind, I do. But I don't remember anything specific about them being there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you have more of a memory of their being there with their mother.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And your memory of the Arvizo children being at Neverland with their mother is in primarily 2003; is that right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall if you observed Janet Arvizo supervising her children while they were staying at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: What do you mean by “supervising”.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, do you recall if Janet was -- appeared to be keeping tabs on her children at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: She stayed in her room a lot.
Mr. Mesereau: But you said you would see her in the main house, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah, when she went to go eat, or pick up her clothes from the laundry room, or --
Mr. Mesereau: Would you see her in the main house with her children.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see her in the main house with her children often.
Kiki Fournier: In the evenings she would mostly be there.
Mr. Mesereau: In the main house.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what would you see Janet Arvizo doing in the main house in the evenings at Neverland during 2003.
Kiki Fournier: Eating dinner. Sitting with the kids. Playing a game that was on the counter in the kitchen. Just being with the kids.
Mr. Mesereau: As best you can recall, would you see her spend hours in the main house at night.
Kiki Fournier: I don't want to say “hours”, but she'd probably spend a couple hours there. I was always so busy working, I didn't really pay attention to what really the guests were doing.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Janet Arvizo, in your opinion, tend to have her evening meal in the main house.
Kiki Fournier: As far as I can remember, yes, is what I would say, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And would she typically eat with her children.
Kiki Fournier: I don't want to say typically eat with them, because they might eat at different times.
Mr. Mesereau: But I guess what you're saying is, you served her quite often, didn't you.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, in the main house, when a guest comes to eat, there often is a menu on a blackboard, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And the menu will say what's being served that day, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And it could be breakfast, lunch or dinner, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that Janet Arvizo would decide each day what type of food she wanted.
Kiki Fournier: Well, if it wasn't written on the blackboard, you know, the chefs or we would tell them what we had for dinner that night.
Mr. Mesereau: And while the Arvizos were there, they would essentially give you their order, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, I remember taking the order from the Arvizo kids at the dining room table. More often than not, they would eat in there. For a while, anyway.
Mr. Mesereau: When you saw the Arvizo kids eating with their mother, was there often anyone else at the dining -- excuse me. Let me rephrase that. When you would observe the Arvizo children eating with their mother in the main dining room, did you often see Michael there.
Kiki Fournier: No, not typically.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you typically see someone else having dinner with them.
Kiki Fournier: With the Arvizo kids.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Kiki Fournier: Well, the Cascio kids were there for a while when the Arvizos were there, and they would all eat dinner at the dining room table. And Gavin's mom wouldn't be at the dinner table, and neither would Mr. Jackson, for a while there.
Mr. Mesereau: And where would you -- excuse me. Where would Janet Arvizo typically eat if she wasn't at the dining room table.
Kiki Fournier: At the table in the kitchen area, or like at the bar.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you please describe for the jury what you mean by “the bar” area.
Kiki Fournier: It's just a place where you have like barstools, where you have the long counter, and there's just barstools sitting there. And it has an arch with bricks over it, and it's right there by the kitchen.
Mr. Mesereau: That bar area is not far from the main dining room, right.
Kiki Fournier: No, it's not too far.
Mr. Mesereau: And typically if you go there any time of day, you see some seats at the bar area, right.
Kiki Fournier: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And 24 hours a day, you'll see glass dishes with various buns and --
Kiki Fournier: Oh, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: -- doughnuts that were made for the day, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Mr. Jackson lets people go in there anytime and pick up a doughnut and take it with them, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that refrigerator area is typically open, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Guests can walk in there and get juice or water or whatever they want to, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would see Janet in that bar area quite often; is that correct.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah, that's where I remember her eating, would be there.
Mr. Mesereau: Would she sometimes eat before her children ate in the main dining room.
Kiki Fournier: I can't say if it was before or after. But for a while there, she wasn't eating with them.
Mr. Mesereau: But you also saw her eat with them from time to time, didn't you.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, she had, too. I think that the reason why they were eating in the dining room, the kids, was because the Cascio kids were with them, and they were the ones that were eating in the dining room. But later on, she would eat in the breakfast -- or the breakfast nook or the bar with her kids.
Mr. Mesereau: When you say “breakfast nook”, would you see Janet eating breakfast in the main house.
Kiki Fournier: I really didn't --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object as cumulative. Relevancy.
The Court: She already said she didn't work in the mornings. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it be accurate to say that Mr. Jackson seemed a lot closer to the Cascio children than the Arvizo children.
Kiki Fournier: He's known them a lot longer, I think, so I think that he's formed more of a bonded relationship with them.
Mr. Mesereau: Did it appear that when the Cascio children were at Neverland and the Arvizo children were at Neverland, that Michael Jackson would spend more time with the Cascio children than the Arvizo children.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You indicated you remember the Cascio children having food in Michael Jackson's bedroom, right.
Kiki Fournier: If that's what it was, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you say “bedroom”, you're talking about this part of the house that has two levels, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You go through a door and there's a bottom level --
Kiki Fournier: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: -- right. And then you can go up the stairs to an upstairs level, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've seen the Cascio children on both levels, right.
Kiki Fournier: Well, the only other time that I've really been in his bedroom is when he wasn't home, to help move furniture or to put something in his room. So I was only upstairs in his bedroom that one time when the Cascio kids were there when I was serving dinner, and that was the only time.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, they visited Neverland for years, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: They've been visiting Neverland since you first started work, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know the father, Dominick.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you seen him there often.
Kiki Fournier: Yes. Not as much as the children, but he was there often.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet with any prosecutor to talk about what you were going to say today.
Kiki Fournier: I spoke with them about coming here, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when was that.
Kiki Fournier: Yesterday.
Mr. Mesereau: Who did you speak with.
Kiki Fournier: Mr. Auchincloss.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it by phone.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have a meeting with him.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did the meeting take place.
Kiki Fournier: At my house.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did Mr. Auchincloss come to your house.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have a meeting with him.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How long was the meeting.
Kiki Fournier: An hour or two. Two hours.
Mr. Mesereau: Was anyone else there.
Kiki Fournier: Detective Alvarez.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did Mr. Auchincloss give you anything to read.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk about what you'd be asked today.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he tell you what questions he was going to ask.
Kiki Fournier: Just kind of gave me a guideline about where everything was going to go.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss with him what your responses to the questions might be.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Mr. Auchincloss give you any suggestions --
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: -- about how to phrase things or anything like that.
Kiki Fournier: No, no, no, no.
Mr. Mesereau: So he would ask you questions and you would just tell him what your answer was, right.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And it went an hour or two.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How many meetings have you had with Mr. Auchincloss.
Kiki Fournier: Two.
Mr. Mesereau: And when was the first meeting, other than the one you just described.
Kiki Fournier: Probably around January.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where did that take place.
Kiki Fournier: My house.
Mr. Mesereau: How long did that meeting last.
Kiki Fournier: Two hours.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did Mr. Auchincloss give you anything to read.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever been sent anything to read about this case from either the sheriffs or the prosecution.
Kiki Fournier: No. I think that I -- I don't know if I saw a copy of my testimony or something. I think I saw that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you. Okay.
Kiki Fournier: I think.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know where you got that. Did somebody give it to you.
Kiki Fournier: No, nobody gave it to me. I just saw it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. We're almost there.
Kiki Fournier: Okay. Thanks.
The Court: From now on, on your subpoenas, I want you to put “Bring an energy bar”. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. I think we're done.
Kiki Fournier: Okay, great.
Mr. Mesereau: Just one second, if I can. I'm going to backtrack for a second. May I, Your Honor.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Mesereau: Where is the ranch house.
Kiki Fournier: Probably like a half a mile or a mile away from the main house.
Mr. Mesereau: And please describe for the jury what the ranch house looks like.
Kiki Fournier: It's just an older home that I think was there before the main house was built. And it's -- it has two bedrooms, and two bathrooms, and a living room.
Mr. Mesereau: And do guests sometimes stay at the ranch house.
Kiki Fournier: Certain guests, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do employees sometimes stay at the ranch house.
Kiki Fournier: Yes, they have.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't often see Mr. Jackson at the ranch house, do you.
Kiki Fournier: No. He's been there, but he doesn't really stay there.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see the Arvizos there.
Kiki Fournier: Not that I can remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Thank you.
Kiki Fournier: Okay.
The Court: Counsel.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Miss Fournier, did you ever deliver food to Mr. Jackson at the ranch house.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: On how many occasions.
Kiki Fournier: Well, I don't know if he was there. I know that Joey was there, and he called to get some food to be delivered to the ranch house.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Did you take the call.
Kiki Fournier: I don't remember if I took the call or not, but -- or somebody told me, but I brought the basket of food down there.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know -- what were your instructions as far as this basket of food goes.
Kiki Fournier: To take some munchies down to the ranch house.
Mr. Auchincloss: On that day that you took some munchies to the ranch house, did you see Mr. Jackson in the presence of children after that period.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did any of those children appear to be intoxicated.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you remember which -- what their names were.
Kiki Fournier: I think Joey was there at the table.
Mr. Auchincloss: What's -- do you know Joey's last name.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Kiki Fournier: And there was -- I don't remember their names right now.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Were any of these children local children from the local community.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know what town they're from.
Kiki Fournier: I think Los Olivos.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you remember any of their names.
Kiki Fournier: I can't think of any of them right now.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. You talked about the fact that there were certain -- there was a certain amount of excess at Neverland with children.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: How long did that go on during your period of employment. How long was it that you felt that children were allowed -- didn't have boundaries.
Kiki Fournier: Well, the first day that I got there, there was silly string all over the inside of the house, so I don't know if you would consider that, but -- no boundaries, but just something like that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you ever seen Mr. Jackson intoxicated.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Kiki Fournier: I don't know if he was intoxicated or he was under a doctor's orders taking medication. I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. My question goes to intoxicated by any substance, regardless of what. Did he ever appear to be under the influence of some substance.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever see him where he appeared intoxicated in the presence of children who appeared intoxicated.
Kiki Fournier: I can't say for sure on that one.
Mr. Auchincloss: If you have an opinion, I'd like to know it.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: You said you can't say for sure. Why is that.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer that.
Kiki Fournier: Well, that one time at the table, I remember him appearing like he might be intoxicated when I was serving.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. When the other children were also intoxicated.
Kiki Fournier: I believe some of them were, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes. The three children that you mentioned.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did Janet Arvizo ever have food delivered in her room.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: When the Cascio children were there, did they spend time with the Arvizo children.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would the Cascio and Arvizo children spend time together with the defendant.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you believe that Neverland is a healthy place for children.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; improper opinion.
Mr. Auchincloss: Based on every -- well, I can finish the question, add a little to the question.
The Court: You may finish your question.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
Mr. Auchincloss: Based on everything you've seen there -- you've talked somewhat extensively on cross and direct about these boundaries, and about children misbehaving, and authority, that kind of thing. Based on everything you've seen and know about Neverland during your period of employment there, do you believe this is a healthy place for children, healthy environment.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Improper opinion; no foundation; relevance; 352.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would you allow your own children to stay at Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; improper opinion; 352; foundation.
The Court: Relevance; sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: How far is it from the main gate of Neverland to the main residence.
Kiki Fournier: I'm really bad on distances, but a mile, mile and a half maybe.
Mr. Auchincloss: And how far is it from the main gate to the nearest town.
Kiki Fournier: Five miles.
Mr. Auchincloss: You mentioned that there were visitors that Mr. Jackson would invite into his house, and that was somewhat common; is that fair to say.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Would he invite these visitors who came into the house, typically would he invite them into his bedroom suite.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
Mr. Auchincloss: If you know.
The Court: All right. Answer “yes” or “no” if you know whether or not visitors were invited.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: You do know.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would they spend time in his bedroom suite.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; 1108.
Mr. Auchincloss: That's fine. I'll move on.
The Court: I'll overrule the objection and limit the questions in that area based on your objection.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: You can go ahead and answer that question.
The Court: She did.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you.
The Court: The answer was “Yes”.
Mr. Auchincloss: You mentioned the phrase “wild boys”. Can you tell me what you mean by that.
Kiki Fournier: When the children were unsupervised, they frequently became wild.
Mr. Auchincloss: And this supervision issue or the fact that children would become problematic in their behavior, was that known to Mr. Jackson based upon -- well, let me back up. Did the children's misbehavior occur in Mr. Jackson's presence.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was he aware that they would destroy things at Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; calls for speculation.
The Court: Foundation; sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know if Mr. Jackson was made aware of the destruction of golf carts, things of that nature, at Neverland.
Kiki Fournier: Sometimes I think he was, because he would notice that things were broken or things were missing. So sometimes, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: The families of -- you mentioned on cross-examination that the list of boys who were special friends of Mr. Jackson, you said that their families would stay at Neverland; is that true.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would any of those children on that list stay at Neverland by themselves, without their families.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you recall which ones.
Kiki Fournier: Brett Barnes did. Elijah did. Little Michael did. Is that enough.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, I can just -- I can make this simple. I can go down the list. Frank Cascio.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: How about his brother Aldo.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: McCaulay Culkin.
Kiki Fournier: Well, as an adult he was there alone. But when he was a child, I pretty much remember his parents being there when I was there.
Mr. Auchincloss: Brett Barnes.
Kiki Fournier: He would come alone sometimes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Elijah.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Gavin.
Kiki Fournier: I remember Gavin always having his mom.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. How about the Los Olivos boys that you've talked about.
Kiki Fournier: They would be there without their parents.
Mr. Auchincloss: Jimmy Safechuck.
Kiki Fournier: I think he did come a couple times without his parents.
Mr. Auchincloss: Wade Robison.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; 1108.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: I believe it's a follow-up to counsel's question. But I'll move on.
Mr. Auchincloss: You said that you had a conversation with Frank about being an employee.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did he tell you who he was an employee of.
Kiki Fournier: No. I just assumed it was Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was he working at Neverland Ranch at the time.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: What time period was this.
Kiki Fournier: I don't remember. I'm sorry.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Do you know if it was in the 2003 -- the year 2003.
Kiki Fournier: No, it was before that. I want to say about like 2001 or 2002.
Mr. Auchincloss: You said that Frank and Vinnie had desks set up in the video library.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: When was that.
Kiki Fournier: Oh, boy, I don't remember. I don't remember.
Mr. Auchincloss: But it was the period of time -- do you know if it was the period of time when the Arvizos were there.
Kiki Fournier: Well, the desks were up there then, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know if Frank and Vinnie were working at those desks during the period of time that the Arvizos were there.
Kiki Fournier: I believe so, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know who Frank was working for at that time.
Kiki Fournier: Like I said, I assume it was Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: You said that busloads of kids would come to visit Mr. Jackson at Neverland, or visit Neverland, I should say.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was Mr. Jackson there typically, when the busloads of kids would be there.
Kiki Fournier: Not typically, but sometimes he was.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would those children spend the night.
Kiki Fournier: Not the busloads of kids, no.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So was there a difference between the kids that would be guests and children who would just come up in a busload.
Kiki Fournier: Somewhat, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was there a difference in the behavior of the children who were guests of Mr. Jackson than the behavior of the kids in the busloads.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: As far as Mr. Jackson leaving the ranch, you said that would be a frequent occurrence.
Kiki Fournier: He did every once in a while. And sometimes we knew when he left, and sometimes we didn't.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was there a difference in the attitude and behavior of the employees when Mr. Jackson was on the property.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
Mr. Auchincloss: She's an employee. I think she's qualified to answer it.
Mr. Mesereau: Relevance.
The Court: The objection is overruled. You may answer. Do you want the question read back.
Kiki Fournier: That's okay. I think I got it.
The Court: You think you got it.
Kiki Fournier: We would always try to be on our absolute best behavior when Mr. Jackson was home.
Mr. Auchincloss: And why was that.
Kiki Fournier: Because we were supposed to, too, and because, you know, nobody wants to get fired.
Mr. Auchincloss: You said that Gavin always treated you with respect.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: You were asked a question about did the Arvizo boys crash any carts, and then your answer was, “All of them crashed carts”. What did you mean by that.
Kiki Fournier: All the kids that stayed as guests. I mean, I can't think of anybody that would be exempt from crashing of the carts.
Mr. Auchincloss: So that would be a destructive behavior of all the kids that stayed.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll withdraw it.
Mr. Auchincloss: You said that Star Arvizo pulled a knife on you in the kitchen.
Kiki Fournier: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Did you feel threatened.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: You're smiling.
Kiki Fournier: Well, I mean, I didn't feel comfortable about it. Who wants a knife in your back, you know, but --
Mr. Auchincloss: Was it your impression that Star was joking with you.
Kiki Fournier: Yes. I thought he was joking and trying to assert some sort of authority.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. He didn't hurt you with the knife.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: And didn't -- what did you say in response to him.
Kiki Fournier: “You're going to have to catch me first”.
Mr. Auchincloss: So did you feel like you were joking back to him when you said that.
Kiki Fournier: Yeah, I was --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: You may answer the question. You started to answer it. Go ahead.
Kiki Fournier: Okay. Well, I didn't like it, so --
Mr. Auchincloss: When you said that, did you feel like you were joking back.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; mischaracterizes the testimony.
The Court: Well, it's asked and answered.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, did you run afterwards. That's the --
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: So you weren't serious when you said that.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were you serious when you said that.
Kiki Fournier: Well, if he would have chased me, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: But did he chase you.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. As far as the destructive behavior, the problem with the guest unit where the glass was broken, I think you said soda was spilled on the floor --
Kiki Fournier: Uh-huh.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- do you know when that occurred.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; asked and answered.
Mr. Auchincloss: Not by me.
The Court: Overruled.
Kiki Fournier: It was towards the end of their stay in the beginning of 2003.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Do you have a distinct recollection of all these events in -- being in the beginning of 2003.
Kiki Fournier: With the rooms being a mess, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Fair statement. So do you know, was it -- what shift were you working at that time.
Kiki Fournier: Usually the late shift.
Mr. Auchincloss: So you saw the room in this condition at what time, approximately.
Kiki Fournier: Actually, I think those few times I came in, the room was a mess, I think that they had actually left the property, because it was -- it was -- it was during the day that I had seen that. So sometimes I would work earlier hours if there was nobody there, too, so it wasn't required that somebody would stay late to serve dinner. So I think those instances would be more during the day that I remember them, not at night.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And when you say they were staying in that unit, what does that mean.
Kiki Fournier: That they were sleeping there.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Do you know that they were sleeping there.
Kiki Fournier: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you have any idea where those children were sleeping on those given nights.
Kiki Fournier: No. Because I wasn't there.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So -- all right. Thank you.
Kiki Fournier: Uh-huh.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you. No further questions.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down.
Kiki Fournier: Okay. Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: May the witness be subject to re-call.
Kiki Fournier: Is it okay if I go.
The Court: You're free to leave. The attorney's indicating that they may want to call you back, so that would be if somebody telephones you only. Under those conditions, you would have to come back.
Kiki Fournier: Okay. Thank you.
The Court: Call your next witness.
Mr. Sneddon: Shawn O'Grady. Your Honor, I would indicate to the Court we're going to go back into the area that we were exploring yesterday. All right. We'll do --
The Court: Face the clerk and raise your right hand.
Message: RUBY WOLFF Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Ruby Wolff: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record
Ruby Wolff: Ruby Wolff, W-o-l-f-f.
The Bailiff: We have the wrong witness.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry.
The Bailiff: This is Ruby Wolff.
Mr. Sneddon: I know that. She was already here.
The Bailiff: You called O'Grady.
Mr. Sneddon: I know. We changed it. She was already in the courtroom, so --
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: You're employed by the sheriff's department.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: You're going to have to lean into that. How long have you been employed by the sheriff's department.
Ruby Wolff: Six years.
Mr. Sneddon: And what is your present duty assignment.
Ruby Wolff: I'm a detective.
Mr. Sneddon: And where are you assigned in your detective responsibilities.
Ruby Wolff: Santa Maria station.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And back in November 18th of 2003, were you assigned to participate in the execution of a search warrant at Neverland Valley Ranch.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And specifically what was your duty assignment at that time.
Ruby Wolff: I was an interviewer and also a searcher.
Mr. Sneddon: And during the course of the time that you were a searcher, did you seize anything at the location.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And could you tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury, where was it that you seized the item.
Ruby Wolff: It was in the master bathroom in Mr. Jackson's residence.
Mr. Sneddon: And specifically what was it that you took.
Ruby Wolff: It was a card.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was the card located when you saw it for the first time.
Ruby Wolff: It was next to a dresser next to a sink in the bathroom.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did you do with that card after you seized it.
Ruby Wolff: I took it to Detective Padilla.
Mr. Sneddon: And he was what we call “the scribe”; is that correct.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: You told him where it was located.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where you found it. Do you have that exhibit with you.
Ruby Wolff: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: Let me identify it first. No, the bag. Your Honor, I have a brown bag with the number “#310” in the upper right-hand corner in black. And we've marked this as People's 712 for identification purposes.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, would you just remove the item that's inside the bag. 712. And do you recognize that.
Ruby Wolff: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And was that the item that you seized and gave to Detective Padilla.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is it in the same condition as it was at the time that you seized it.
Ruby Wolff: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Move that 712 be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: May I look at it for one second, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you. No objection, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: No further questions, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: May I just look at the card, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Does -- Detective, is that the --
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Thank you. Detective, you found this card where.
Ruby Wolff: In the master bathroom.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And the card says, “I miss you, Daddy Michael”, correct.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you read the card when you found it.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you do after you read the card.
Ruby Wolff: Gave it to Detective Padilla.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, this card says the following: “Dear Daddy Michael. How are you. I can't wait to see you again and play with you at Neverland, because we are going to be best friends and you are my daddy forever”, right.
Ruby Wolff: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: It says, “You are the finest grown-up in the world. I love you, Daddy Michael. And tell my little brother and little sister that I love and care about them. Thank you for everything, Daddy Michael. Thank you for being my Daddy Michael. Thank you for helping me be happy and beat cancer. Happy Daddy's Day, and I love you more. Love, your Doo-Doo Head, Gavin Arvizo”, right.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And then there's a heart and there's print inside the heart that says, “I love my Daddy Michael forever”, right.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And then it says, “P.S.: Please give me your new phone numbers, because I miss talking to you”. And then the writing continues, “My phone number is 626-452-1693”, right.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, this card was in the purple envelope, right.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And the envelope was addressed to “Daddy Michael, from your son Gavin”, right.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you see little faces that appear to be sort of written on the envelope, correct.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss this card with anyone besides the person you gave it to.
Ruby Wolff: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever see it after you gave it to the person you gave it to.
Ruby Wolff: Not up until coming here.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Did you know, when you came in here, you were going to be asked questions about this card.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you know that.
Ruby Wolff: We were just told to review our evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you told you're not going to be asked questions about anything else you seized, just the card.
Ruby Wolff: That's the only item I seized.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So during your search, that was the only thing you actually seized that day.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Do you recall having a meeting before the search with all of the people involved in the search.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, she -- I'm going to object as beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you receive any direction before you seized this item from anybody.
Mr. Sneddon: Same objection, Your Honor. It would call for hearsay.
The Court: You can answer that “yes” or “no”. You may answer.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who did you receive direction from.
Ruby Wolff: We all had a copy of a search warrant.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you also have a copy of a Santa Barbara County Sheriff's Department operations plan.
Mr. Sneddon: Same objection, Your Honor. Beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Overruled.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you read that operations plan.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when did you read it before you searched the main house.
Ruby Wolff: I don't recall the exact time frame.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know the date that you conducted the search.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was that date.
Ruby Wolff: November the 18th, 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately how many people were involved in that search.
Ruby Wolff: Approximately 69 people.
Mr. Mesereau: Were they mostly sheriff's personnel.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the 69 people who searched Mr. Jackson's home meet somewhere before the search.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you meet.
Ruby Wolff: I can't recall the exact street.
Mr. Mesereau: Did all 69 people arrive at the same time.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as vague, as to arrive where.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Did all 69 people involved in the search of Mr. Jackson's home enter the premises at the same time, to your knowledge.
Ruby Wolff: I can't recall. We were all behind one another.
Mr. Mesereau: What was your assignment.
Ruby Wolff: I was an interviewer and also a searcher.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you told specifically where you were going to search.
Ruby Wolff: I can't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you end up in the room where you found this particular card, if you know.
Ruby Wolff: It was an area that hadn't been searched yet.
Mr. Mesereau: And which -- which area was that.
Ruby Wolff: In the master bathroom.
Mr. Mesereau: And did someone tell you it hadn't been searched yet.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who was that.
Ruby Wolff: I don't -- I can't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you armed at the time.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were the 69 people you mentioned all armed.
Ruby Wolff: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Who entered the premises first.
Ruby Wolff: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Who else searched the master bathroom.
Ruby Wolff: I know Detective Pierce was there. And I don't recall the other detectives that were in there.
Mr. Mesereau: Was the area where you found this particular card that says “I miss you, Daddy Michael”, was that area videotaped, to your knowledge.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see it being videotaped.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you arrange for it to be videotaped.
Ruby Wolff: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you on that videotape.
Ruby Wolff: Not that I'm aware of. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you found the card, did you touch it.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you pick it up.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you read it.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you take it out of the envelope.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Then what did you do with it.
Ruby Wolff: I took it to Detective Padilla.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it ever videotaped where you found it, to your knowledge.
Ruby Wolff: Not to my knowledge.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, when the team of 69 people got together, you got some instructions about what to do with the media, correct.
Ruby Wolff: Not that I can recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall any discussion about media's going to be at Neverland or watching Neverland during the search.
Ruby Wolff: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall any media being there.
Ruby Wolff: I believe there were helicopters above.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know who told the media about this search with 69 people at Mr. Jackson's residence.
Ruby Wolff: No.
Mr. Mesereau: But you saw copters everywhere.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see people with cameras on the ground.
Ruby Wolff: As we were driving in, there was, I believe, one cameraperson.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see cameras when you left.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see media trucks.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, when these 69 people went on the property, people who worked at Neverland were not free to leave, correct.
Ruby Wolff: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: I mean, at some point they were allowed to leave, but for a certain period of time, none of you would allow them to leave the premises, correct.
Ruby Wolff: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And to your knowledge, your department issued a press release that day, correct.
Ruby Wolff: I don't recall that.
Mr. Mesereau: You were unaware that your department issued a press release announcing this big search of Mr. Jackson's home.
Ruby Wolff: I don't recall specifics on who arranged that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if any fingerprint testing has ever been done on this card that has the words “I miss you, Daddy Michael”.
Ruby Wolff: Not to my knowledge.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you arrange for anything like that.
Ruby Wolff: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it have been your responsibility to do that.
Ruby Wolff: No. I believe it would have been possibly forensics.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you wearing gloves when you touched the card.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How many people were in the master bathroom with you when you searched.
Ruby Wolff: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it you alone.
Ruby Wolff: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it more than three.
Ruby Wolff: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Is there any other area of the main house that you searched on that day.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Where else did you search.
Ruby Wolff: I believe Mr. Jackson's daughter's room.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you search that room alone.
Ruby Wolff: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you with other people when you searched that room.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many, if you know.
Ruby Wolff: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you indicated you reviewed the operations plan, right.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you read it before the group of 69 people met, right.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, everybody else had a copy of that operations plan, right.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What did you see in the dresser, other than the card, if you remember.
Ruby Wolff: I don't recall specifics.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when you looked at this operations plan, you were informed that a prior investigation into Mr. Jackson had been terminated, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Object. It calls for hearsay, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: It was your understanding that this search with 69 people grew out of an attorney calling Santa Barbara --
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object. It's beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Sustained. Sustained. It's outside the scope.
Mr. Mesereau: Last question.
Mr. Mesereau: Your property report says you retrieved other greeting cards, correct.
Ruby Wolff: That's not correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that not correct.
Ruby Wolff: That's not correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. It was only one greeting card.
Ruby Wolff: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. No further questions, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you. No further questions.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down.
Ruby Wolff: Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: Let's try O'Grady this time. Detective. Did you walk off with the bag.
Ruby Wolff: Yes, I did. Sorry about that.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you.
The Court: Come forward. When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing. Face the clerk and raise your right hand.
Message: SHAWN O'GRADY Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Shawn O'Grady: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Shawn O'Grady: It's Shawn O'Grady. S-h-a-w-n. O, apostrophe, G-r-a-d-y.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Deputy O'Grady, you're employed by the sheriff's department, correct.
Shawn O'Grady: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: How long have you been with the sheriff's department.
Shawn O'Grady: Since 1997.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you assigned to participate in the execution of a search warrant on November the 18th of 2003.
Shawn O'Grady: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sneddon: And that was at Neverland Valley Ranch.
Shawn O'Grady: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And in connection with the execution of that search warrant, did you perform any responsibility about searching.
Shawn O'Grady: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And where were you assigned to search.
Shawn O'Grady: I was assigned to search the bedroom, the bathroom area of Michael Jackson's room.
Mr. Sneddon: As a result of your looking in the area you've described to the jury, did you seize something.
Shawn O'Grady: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did you seize.
Shawn O'Grady: I seized a book with sexually explicit material in it.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was that book located the first time that you saw it.
Shawn O'Grady: It was on the border of his bathtub.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to show you an exhibit that's in evidence as People's Exhibit 62. Do you recognize that photograph.
Shawn O'Grady: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that the area you searched.
Shawn O'Grady: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you see in that photograph the location of the item that you seized.
Shawn O'Grady: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And does that photograph depict the location of that item at the time you first saw it.
Shawn O'Grady: Yes, it does.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you please circle and put your initials. And I'm going to ask you to put the number “588” by it. Thank you. Your Honor, at this time I have an item, it's a brown bag with a “#307” in black in the upper right-hand corner, and it's marked as People's 588 for identification purposes. I'd like the bag and its contents marked as Exhibit 588.
The Court: All right. That's 588.
Mr. Sneddon: Go ahead, or give time to counsel.
Mr. Mesereau: We're okay. We're okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Good. The next item I'd like to have marked for identification purposes is a one-page photograph marked as People's Exhibit No. 711 for identification purposes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I'm going to ask you some questions. I direct your attention, first of all, to the bag that's in front of you that's been marked as People's 588 for identification purposes, all right. Would you look at the contents of the bag, please. Yeah, just -- Now, you've taken out of that bag a book, correct.
Shawn O'Grady: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize that book.
Shawn O'Grady: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that the item you seized on November 11th.
Shawn O'Grady: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sneddon: At the location depicted in the photograph.
Shawn O'Grady: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: After you took that item into your custody and care, what did you do with it then.
Shawn O'Grady: Took it to where we were doing the -- or, actually, I went to Lieutenant Klapakis and asked him if this is something that he wanted seized.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And after that conversation, what did you do.
Shawn O'Grady: He said it was, and we took it over where we were bagging the evidence up.
Mr. Sneddon: And what was -- was that where Detective Padilla was.
Shawn O'Grady: That is correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that book in the same condition as it was on the day that you seized it.
Shawn O'Grady: It appears to be, yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to the exhibit that's in front of you, 711, do you see that.
Shawn O'Grady: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Does 711 accurately depict the front cover of that book.
Shawn O'Grady: Yes, it does.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'd move that 588 and 711 be admitted into evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection, Your Honor.
The Court: They're admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: And the exhibit that's on the overhead there is Exhibit 711, correct.
Shawn O'Grady: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And that's the one that you said accurately depicts the front cover of the book that you have in front of you, which is 588, correct.
Shawn O'Grady: Yes, that's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Thank you. I have no further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: Are you going to want the Elmo on.
Mr. Mesereau: No, Your Honor. That's okay. But I would like to see the item of evidence.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. O'Grady, you seized a book titled “Bidgood”, and the name is “Taschen” at the bottom; is that correct.
Shawn O'Grady: Yes, that's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know where that book came from.
Shawn O'Grady: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know that Mr. Taschen is a German photographer who was going to photograph the Jackson family.
Shawn O'Grady: I have no idea, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you aware that Mr. Taschen sent this to Mr. Jackson.
Shawn O'Grady: No, I do not.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's Peter Pan on the cover, correct.
Shawn O'Grady: I don't know. It looks like a person playing a pan flute. Could be like a mythological person or something.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. No further questions.
Mr. Sneddon: Jeff Ellis.
The Court: Do you have any other questions.
Mr. Sneddon: No, I'm sorry. No further questions.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down.
Mr. Sneddon: I'll take those out of the way for you.
The Court: Remain standing. Face the clerk, please. Raise your right hand.
Message: JEFFERY ELLIS Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Jeffery Ellis: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Jeffery Ellis: My name is Jeffery Ellis. J-e-f-f-e-r-y. Ellis, E-l-l-i-s.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Mr. Ellis, you're employed by me.
Jeffery Ellis: That's correct. By the District Attorney's Office.
Mr. Sneddon: And how long have you been a detective/ investigator with the Santa Barbara District Attorney's Office.
Jeffery Ellis: For four years.
Mr. Sneddon: And prior to that, did you have any law enforcement experience.
Jeffery Ellis: I did. I was a police officer in Lompoc for nine years.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, on November the 18th of 2003, you participated in the execution of a search warrant at Neverland Valley Ranch, correct.
Jeffery Ellis: I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And during the course of your assignment there, were you involved in doing some searching.
Jeffery Ellis: I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And during the time that you were searching, did you seize an item.
Jeffery Ellis: I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall where that item was that you seized.
Jeffery Ellis: It was in the lower -- what I would describe as the lower portion of the bedroom, Michael Jackson's bedroom, the downstairs.
Mr. Sneddon: And where downstairs.
Jeffery Ellis: Near the fireplace.
Mr. Sneddon: And was it on -- sitting on something, or on the floor, or do you recall.
Jeffery Ellis: It was in a bag, a B. Dalton book bag on the floor, as I recall.
Mr. Sneddon: And then when you seized that item, what did you do with it.
Jeffery Ellis: I gave it to the deputy that was logging in evidence.
Mr. Sneddon: Would that be Detective Padilla.
Jeffery Ellis: Yes, Detective Padilla.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I've shown counsel the two exhibits I would like to have marked. The first one is a brown paper bag that contains the number “#313” at the top. And it has an evidence tag number 589 for identification purposes. And a photograph, one-page photograph that we've had marked as People's 710 for identification purposes.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, let me get there first.
Mr. Mesereau: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: I appreciate the cooperation, but....
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Detective Ellis, first of all, why don't you take a look at the book, the Exhibit 589. You're removing the book from the bag, correct.
Jeffery Ellis: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize that book.
Jeffery Ellis: I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And was that the book that you seized from Mr. Jackson's downstairs bedroom area.
Jeffery Ellis: That appears to be the same book.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to the exhibit, is it in the same condition as it was at the time you seized it.
Jeffery Ellis: It appears to be.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And with regard to the Exhibit 710 the photograph, do you see that.
Jeffery Ellis: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: Does that photograph accurately depict the front page of the Exhibit 589.
Jeffery Ellis: It does.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Thank you. Why don't you hand me just that. Your Honor, now I'm going to move to admit it into evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: Both items.
Mr. Sneddon: Please, Your Honor. 589 and 710.
The Court: They're admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: And we're going to display the Item 710 on the Elmo, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Detective Ellis, that's the item that you seized in the bag on the floor.
Jeffery Ellis: It is.
Mr. Sneddon: That's the front cover of it.
Jeffery Ellis: The front cover, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: It's time for our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Counsel.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Is it detective.
Jeffery Ellis: It's investigator.
Mr. Mesereau: Investigator, okay. Okay. Investigator, referring you to Item 313 --
Jeffery Ellis: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: -- which was just in front of you.
Jeffery Ellis: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Whether you like this kind of material or not, this is not illegal, is it.
Jeffery Ellis: Not as far as I know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. In fact, you can get material like this on amazon.com, correct.
Jeffery Ellis: I believe you can.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know if this was ever tested for fingerprints.
Jeffery Ellis: I don't know that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You seized it, though, right.
Jeffery Ellis: I seized it, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have gloves on.
Jeffery Ellis: I had gloves on during the search, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who did you give this to.
Jeffery Ellis: Detective Padilla.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did he have gloves on, to your knowledge.
Jeffery Ellis: I really don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if anybody ever suggested this book be fingerprinted.
Jeffery Ellis: No, I wouldn't know that.
Mr. Mesereau: I guess now that I've touched it, my prints are on it, right.
Jeffery Ellis: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: What is the procedure for having something like this fingerprinted.
Jeffery Ellis: I really wouldn't know. That's kind of beyond the scope of my involvement in the case.
Mr. Mesereau: So you typically see something you want to seize, you transport it to who you think is next in the chain to receive it, right.
Jeffery Ellis: Well, in this case that's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And why were you giving it to this person.
Jeffery Ellis: To Detective Padilla.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jeffery Ellis: Because he was the person that was designated as being in charge of logging and packaging the evidence that was seized.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you look and see what Detective Padilla did with it.
Jeffery Ellis: I saw him put it in a bag.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the last time you saw it until today.
Jeffery Ellis: No. Until Tuesday.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. But you had no responsibility at all to ensure or request fingerprint testing.
Jeffery Ellis: No. That was beyond the scope of my involvement.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: No questions, Your Honor.
The Court: You may step down.
Mr. Sneddon: Conn Abel. Would you have Conn come down.
Jeffery Ellis: Yes, I will.
The Court: Please face the clerk and raise your right hand.
Message: CONN ABEL Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Conn Abel: Yes, I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Conn Abel: Conn Abel, A-b-e-l.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Hi, Mr. Abel. You're employed by the sheriff's department, correct.
Conn Abel: Yes, I am.
Mr. Sneddon: You're going to have to lean into that microphone here.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: We're all having the same problem here. How long have you been a deputy sheriff.
Conn Abel: 30 years.
Mr. Sneddon: In the course of your experience as a deputy sheriff, how long have you been a detective.
Conn Abel: I was a detective for eight years, and then I supervised a detective -- narcotics detectives for approximately two years.
Mr. Sneddon: How long were you assigned to narcotics.
Conn Abel: Eight years.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, going back to November 18th of 2003, were you involved in the execution of a search warrant at Neverland Valley Ranch.
Conn Abel: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you assigned certain responsibilities in connection with that search.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And was one of the areas you were assigned to search an area known as the arcade.
Conn Abel: Yes, it was.
Mr. Sneddon: And could you describe just basically to the ladies and gentlemen of the jury what the arcade looked like, as you recall.
Conn Abel: The bottom floor was a multitude of just about every arcade game that you could possibly think of, a photo booth. The back of the arcade towards what I call the north area of the arcade, was a storage room. Outside the back door, there was some showers, dressing rooms. Upstairs in the arcade were a couple more games. I believe there were a couple more games upstairs. And then as you walked through the door up -- which I believe was like the north door of the upstairs, there was a library.
Mr. Sneddon: Is there a room that is called a cellar.
Conn Abel: Yes, there is.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you go down into the cellar --
Conn Abel: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: -- as part of your responsibilities.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And in the cellar, can you tell us whether or not you saw any alcoholic beverages down there.
Conn Abel: Yes, there were.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you tell the jury what you saw and where you saw it.
Conn Abel: On a wall in the back of the -- what I call the kitchen area, as you go down into the cellar, you would then make a right turn and go into the main cellar area. If you continued going right, you would then go around another corner, and there was an entryway into a little kitchen area. And in that kitchen area there were bottles of wine on the wall, red and white wine. In a storage cabinet, there were just a multitude of different types of liquor. Vodka, whiskey, liqueurs. And then there were open bottles of wine and liqueurs in the refrigerator.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember the name of any of the vodkas you saw there.
Conn Abel: I do remember Smirnoff, Skyy, Grey Goose. I think there was another one that was listed in the report, Chopin. Maybe Chopin.
Mr. Sneddon: Don't look at me. I don't drink that stuff.
Conn Abel: I remember in the report, it said Chopin. And I remember Skyy, Grey Goose, Smirnoff would be for sure.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, during the time that you were in the cellar, did you seize any items of literature -- or books.
Conn Abel: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And let me show you a couple of exhibits, if I can. Well, do you remember the number of books that you took. Let me do it another way. Let me do it another way. All right. Your Honor, for the record, I've handed down -- and they've had a chance to examine it. The first number is 581 for identification purposes. It's a clear plastic bag that has inside of it a brown bag with the numbers “#505” on it, and it appears to contain several books. Item 582 is another brown bag with “#508” at the top right-hand corner. It's a brown bag that contains a book. And the last item, Your Honor, is Item 583, with a black number “#509” in the upper right-hand corner. All right. Detective Abel, with regard to -- let's start with the first one, if we can, which is 581. Do you see that bag.
Conn Abel: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to the brown bag that's inside it, it has several books, correct.
Conn Abel: Yes, it does.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you remove the books and examine them for a moment, if you would. All right. With regard to the three books that you took out of the item marked as 581 for identification purposes, do you recognize those three books.
Conn Abel: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: Could you tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury where those books were located the first time that you saw them.
Conn Abel: The books were located -- as I mentioned before, you went into the library, and you continued to the right into the main area. I'm sorry, of the cellar. You continue into the right, and then straight ahead to the right there would have been a wine rack on the wall, which did not have wine in it. Kind of in the left lower corner of that wine rack that was on the wall, these books were sitting in the wine rack.
Mr. Sneddon: You mentioned before there was a wine rack with wine in it. Where was that located in relationship to this one where the books were found.
Conn Abel: That would have been in the kitchen area. That would have been continuing on to the right around the corner and into the kitchen area.
Mr. Sneddon: So this is in the larger area.
Conn Abel: This is in the main -- the main cellar area.
Mr. Sneddon: Are those books in the same condition that they were on the day that you seized them.
Conn Abel: They appear to be, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you obtained those books and decided to seize those books, what did you do with them.
Conn Abel: I gave those -- these books -- I instructed Detective Cooley to retain those books as evidence.
Mr. Sneddon: And by “these books”, do you mean the ones that were inside the bag marked “581”.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir. There are three books total.
Mr. Sneddon: Correct.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: That you gave to Detective Cooley.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: That were in 581.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Move they be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: All right. They're admitted. That's 581, 582 and 583.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you put those back in the bag right now.
The Court: No, those are -- just 581. Those are all books within 581.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, sir.
The Court: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, let's turn our attention to 582, if we can.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: And would you examine the contents of 582, please. All right. Do you recognize the book that you took out of the bag marked as 582 for identification purposes.
Conn Abel: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was that book located the first time that you saw it.
Conn Abel: It was in a cardboard box that was located in the upstairs library.
Mr. Sneddon: So we're out of the cellar now; is that correct.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: And we're on the second floor of the arcade.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And there's a library up there.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And this was located where in relationship to the actual library books.
Conn Abel: If I could explain. As you entered into the library, there were rows and racks of built library racks where books would fit in them. However, in the room, it was jam-packed full of bags and boxes that were stacked throughout the library also. This happened to be in a cardboard box that was stacked in the library.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And after you determined to take the item marked as 582, who did you give that item to, if anyone.
Conn Abel: Detective Cooley again.
Mr. Sneddon: With the same process.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: And does that book appear to be in the same condition it was at the time that you seized it on November the 18th of 2003.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, move it be admitted into evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection, Your Honor.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll say no further objection.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, lastly, let's go to the item that's marked as Exhibit 583 for identification purposes. Do you recognize that book.
Conn Abel: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was the item -- the book that you've taken out of 583, where was that located the first time that you saw it.
Conn Abel: In a box in the library, a cardboard box within the library.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know whether or not it was in the same kind of cardboard box as the other exhibit or in a different one.
Conn Abel: I seem to recall it was together, but I can't recall exactly for sure if they were in the same box or if they were in a box -- it was in a box right next to that one.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Fair enough. And is it in the same condition that it was at the time you first saw it.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you follow the same process with regard to giving that to Deputy Cooley.
Conn Abel: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Why don't you put that back in there, if we could. And, Your Honor, I would move it be admitted into evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection. No further objection.
The Court: It's admitted. You don't have to say that. I understand the other hearing you reserved those objections.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, for the record, I want to indicate that the first item I showed counsel was a brown paper bag with a figure “#1001” and “#1001”, capital “A” in the upper right-hand corner. And within that brown bag, there are two -- the brown bag, the items inside are marked for identification purposes separately, but I think I probably should put a separate one on the brown bag itself just for purposes of housekeeping. Is that the recommendation of the clerk and the Court.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Thank you. So the record will be complete then, Your Honor, the brown bag itself is going to be marked as 714 for identification purposes. And the plastic bag inside of 714 that contains a brown bag has been marked as 584. And the second clear plastic bag which contains a white binder is 585. So 584 and 585 are inside of the 714. The second item is another brown bag, Your Honor, that has “#1002” and “#1002”, capital “A”, and I'm affixing the evidence stamp as Evidence Stamp No. 716 for identification purposes. And these items I've shown to counsel. And they contain items that are marked for identification purposes as 586, which is a clear plastic bag containing a brown bag. And the second item is 587, which contains a clear plastic bag with a white binder with the “Item 1002” on the front of it. And then lastly, Your Honor, I have shown counsel two photographs. The first one is marked as People's 713 for identification purposes. And the second one is Exhibit No. 715 for identification purposes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Detective Abel, let me ask you this: In addition to the areas that you've described to the ladies and gentlemen of the jury that you searched that day, was there another area that you were assigned to search.
Conn Abel: Yes, there was.
Mr. Sneddon: And what area was that.
Conn Abel: That was what is referred to as the museum and/or Mr. Jackson's office area.
Mr. Sneddon: And in that particular office area, were there some -- were there some items that you seized.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to the exhibits that are in front of you that are marked as -- I'm sorry, the first brown bag is what, seven --
Conn Abel: 716.
Mr. Sneddon: 7 -- no, on the tag. The evidence tag. The manila one right where your hand is.
Conn Abel: It says Exhibit 716.
Mr. Sneddon: Oh, okay. And the second one.
Conn Abel: 714.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, with regard to those two exhibits, 716 and 714, where within the office were they found.
Conn Abel: They were in a rest room area of the office. And as you entered the rest room, the toilet area would have been to the right. To the left was a sink/cabinet area. And the magazines, if you opened up the middle drawers -- doors of the cabinet, they were on a flat shelf underneath that cabinet.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I have shown counsel two photographs that have been marked previously for identification purposes as 105 and 106 for identification purposes.
Mr. Sneddon: Detective, with regard to the photographs, People's Exhibit 105, do you recognize what's depicted in that photograph.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that an accurate depiction of what it purports to represent.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to 106, is that an accurate depiction of what it purports to represent.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to -- Your Honor, I move they be admitted into evidence.
The Court: They're admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, if we can just have -- I'll get them from you. Your Honor, I'm going to use the Elmo for the next few minutes. Now, that is Exhibit 105. Do you recognize that.
Conn Abel: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: Could you tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury what that photograph depicts.
Conn Abel: It's the cabinet that would be on the left-hand side as you walk in, and that would be the right-hand side of that sink/cabinet area as you looked at it and you opened it up.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to the photograph, or the magazine depicted in that photograph, is that one of the magazines that you took from that area.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you know whether that would be the item contained in 716 or 714.
Conn Abel: I'd have to look real quick.
Mr. Sneddon: Why don't you do that for us, please. It should have a separate exhibit number on it, so feel free to pull those out, because I'm going to ask you some more questions.
Conn Abel: It would be the one that was in Exhibit 714.
Mr. Sneddon: And it has a separate identification number that's on the brown bag in front -- I'm sorry. In the plastic bag you just pulled out, what's the number on that.
Conn Abel: 585.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. The white binder, 585, contains the magazine depicted in the photograph, correct.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, do you see the photograph that we've placed on the board, which is 106, I believe.
Conn Abel: Yes. Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And what is that.
Conn Abel: That was the left-hand side of the cabinet that would -- with a door on it that you could open up.
Mr. Sneddon: And does that photograph depict the location of the item that you seized.
Conn Abel: Yes, it does.
Mr. Sneddon: And the item itself.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, when you seize -- by the way, we should tie up a loose end here. With regard to the photograph, 106, and the magazine depicted in that photograph, the exhibit -- which one of the large brown bags did that come out of. That would be 716.
Conn Abel: That's the one that's up there now.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, sir.
Conn Abel: 716.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Would you please take those exhibits out. And you're removing the plastic sleeve from the white binder. I can't even talk.
Conn Abel: That is marked 587.
Mr. Sneddon: 587.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, please look at the first page of that, if you would. Do you recognize that.
Conn Abel: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that the magazine that you seized on November 18th.
Conn Abel: It's in a little different condition, but, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: It wasn't all put in a binder at that time.
Conn Abel: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: It's the way it was depicted in the photograph.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, you have -- and why don't you leave those out for just a second. There's two additional photographs that I presented to you up there.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And with regard to -- what are the numbers of those photographs.
Conn Abel: 713.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Conn Abel: And 715.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's talk about 713. Does 713 accurately depict the front cover of the magazine you took out of the Exhibit 716.
Conn Abel: Yes, it does.
Mr. Sneddon: It's an accurate depiction of that.
Conn Abel: Appears to be, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And then let's go to 715. That photograph, can you compare that to the front page of the exhibit that came out of seven -- 714. Or just give me the exhibit number. That's fine.
Conn Abel: It came out of 585. The 715, which is marked, which is the paper you gave me, is an accurate depiction of the front page of the magazine that I took from that cabinet.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So, Your Honor, I'd move that 713 and 715 be admitted into evidence.
The Court: They're admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, just a housekeeping matter. I did move 105 and 106 in evidence.
The Clerk: (Nods head up and down.)
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I'm going to place 713 on the board, on the Elmo. All right. That's the photograph that you identified as being a depiction of the front cover of the item you seized; is that correct.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And the next exhibit. That one is marked as 715, correct.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that the photograph that you identified as being an accurate depiction of the front cover of that magazine that you took.
Conn Abel: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I think we can have the lights now, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Actually, I guess I should probably show those books. Might as well do that and get that over with, and then I have only one more question to ask. Why don't you hand me those. All right. We're going to just ask you to -- from the three books that are in five -- it's an oversized book, but is that the title of the book that you seized.
Conn Abel: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember why you seized it.
Conn Abel: It depicted male and female nudes. Some, if not -- I'm not sure how many, but it would appear that they were adolescent or young in appearance.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And the second book. Doesn't have a title. But do you remember that book.
Conn Abel: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry, I guess it does on the -- it's called “Drew and Jimmy”. Do you recall that.
Conn Abel: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to that book, do you recall why you took that book.
Conn Abel: I recall that it depicted males that were either nude and/or semi-nude.
Mr. Sneddon: And the last book is called “Room to Play”. Do you recall why you seized that book.
Conn Abel: Because it depicted male and/or female young-appearing individuals that were nude and/or semi-nude.
Mr. Sneddon: The next one I'm going to show you is from 582. It's in evidence. Do you recall that.
Conn Abel: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And the reason that you took that.
Conn Abel: It depicted males and/or females that looked and/or appeared to be youthful, nude and/or semi-nude.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to -- do you see the front part of the face on this particular exhibit.
Conn Abel: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: 582.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Was that the condition of the book at the time that you seized it.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: And then the last one that's in People's 583, which is called Cronos.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: For the court reporter, that's C-r-o-n-o-s. And do you recognize that item.
Conn Abel: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And why did you take that.
Conn Abel: It has a multitude of pictures in it showing photographs of individuals from a youthful age to an older age, nude and semi-nude.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Thank you. All right. I believe we can have the lights back on, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: I thought you were through.
Mr. Sneddon: No, almost. All right. The last item that I have with this witness is a large plastic case that we have had marked -- and I've shown it to counsel -- we've had marked as 717 for identification purposes, and has on the front of it a white sheet of paper with the Item No. 1009 for tracking purposes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, Detective Abel, I've handed you the Exhibit 717, the black case.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: Are you familiar with that.
Conn Abel: Yes, I am.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was that item the first time that you saw it.
Conn Abel: It was in what I'd describe as a closet area, closet/storage area of the main -- or Mr. Jackson's museum or office.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to that particular item, was it open or closed at the time that you took it. I'm sorry, I want to rephrase that. Was it open or closed at the time you first saw it.
Conn Abel: Closed.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you open it up.
Conn Abel: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And would you describe to the ladies and gentlemen -- first of all, let me go back, just to do a little foundation here. You told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury that you worked narcotics for a while; is that correct.
Conn Abel: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Quite a while, actually.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And in the course of working narcotics, did you become familiar with surveillance equipment.
Conn Abel: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you become familiar with equipment that is used to monitor telephone calls.
Conn Abel: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to the Exhibit 717 that you found in Mr. Jackson's closet in Mr. Jackson's office, with regard to that particular exhibit, when you opened it up, did you recognize what was inside.
Conn Abel: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury what was inside.
Conn Abel: There was a large tape-recorder capable of accepting multiple headsets. There's wire packages in there. There's a suction cup that would be utilized to monitor phone calls. There's wires that would plug into it that have adapters that go into phone receptors. There's extendable -- not “extendable”. There's small little, what we'd call, to a degree, pinpoint, pinhole-type microphones that are in there that have adapters or have the fittings on it that fit into that type of recorder. So in my opinion, it was used to monitor activity, conversations on the phone and/or off the phone.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to the exhibit itself, when you opened it up, were there any written materials inside.
Conn Abel: Yes, there were.
Mr. Sneddon: What were they.
Conn Abel: There's a business card for a private investigator inside of it. There are price lists for the itemized items. There are detailed instructions on how to monitor and video-surveil a room. There's detailed instructions on how to operate and tape phone calls.
Mr. Sneddon: Were the instructions the kind that were preprinted or were they in some handwritten form; do you recall.
Conn Abel: There's some of both in there.
Mr. Sneddon: Some of both.
Conn Abel: Some of both.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, with regard to the Item 717, after you seized it and took it into your possession, what did you do with it.
Conn Abel: I gave it to Detective Cooley to package as evidence.
Mr. Sneddon: And does it appear to be in the same condition now as it was when you seized it.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to the contents of it, I asked you during your three days of waiting here to open it up and inspect the items inside, correct.
Conn Abel: Yes, you did.
Mr. Sneddon: And those items are in the same condition as when you turned it over to Deputy Cooley.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, move 717 be admitted into evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: Relevancy.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: Detective, in your experience, and based upon your training and your years as a narcotics officer, could you tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury whether or not it is legal for someone to listen in to or monitor another person's telephone call.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; no foundation.
The Court: It calls for a legal conclusion. I'll sustain the objection.
Mr. Sneddon: Are you familiar with the existence of laws that proscribe the conduct of listening in to other people's telephone calls.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you have to learn those in connection with your responsibilities as a narcotics officer and as a sheriff, deputy sheriff.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: Nothing further, Your Honor.
The Court: Cross-examine.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, please.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: With respect to that equipment you just described --
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: -- did you ever determine if it had ever been used.
Conn Abel: It appears to have been, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Why do you say that. Did you test it.
Conn Abel: I did not test it, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Then how do you know it's been used.
Conn Abel: A lot of the wiring indeed has been re-manipulated. It doesn't appear to be new condition. It appears to be scratched, appears to be used. Appears to be in an older condition.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't test to see if it's ever been used, did you.
Conn Abel: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know where that came from, that equipment.
Conn Abel: Came from the office area in Mr. Jackson's office.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know where it was purchased.
Conn Abel: I do not.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if it was lawfully purchased.
Conn Abel: I would only assume no.
Mr. Mesereau: You can buy that equipment, can't you.
Conn Abel: Law enforcement can, I know.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't really know if you can buy that lawfully or not, do you.
Conn Abel: Possibly if I went to the appropriate store I could maybe get some of that stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: A citizen of the United States can go to a store and buy that stuff, can't they.
Conn Abel: I -- I'm not sure about the microphones. No, sir, I don't know about that.
Mr. Mesereau: So what you're saying is you don't know, right.
Conn Abel: About --
Mr. Mesereau: Whether an ordinary citizen can lawfully purchase that equipment or not, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, object as argumentative.
The Court: Overruled.
Conn Abel: You could say that I guess I really don't know for sure.
Mr. Mesereau: And you don't know how that equipment ever got to Neverland, do you.
Conn Abel: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know if it was given to Mr. Jackson or purchased, right.
Conn Abel: There's prices in there, so I could only assume that it was purchased.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, if someone gave it to Mr. Jackson, they'd have probably purchased it first, wouldn't they.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object. Assumes facts -- calls for a conclusion. Speculation.
The Court: It's argumentative. Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know where that originated, do you.
Mr. Sneddon: Object; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Conn Abel: If you want -- if you wanted me to look inside there, there's a company in there, and I can tell you the name of the company.
Mr. Mesereau: Even if you knew the name of the company, you wouldn't know how that got to Neverland, would you.
Conn Abel: No, sir. But you asked me if I knew where it was originated.
Mr. Mesereau: That equipment appeared to be associated with a private investigator, true.
Conn Abel: I -- I didn't seize it. And when I opened it up and looked at it, I didn't seize it for that purpose. And I didn't know at the time it was associated with a private investigator, no, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm not asking what the purpose was in seizing it. I'm just asking you if -- from what you saw when you looked at that equipment, did it appear it could be associated with a private investigator.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object again. It calls for a conclusion and speculation.
The Court: Overruled.
Conn Abel: At the time that I seized it, I did not know that it was associated with a private investigator, no, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: My question was different. My question was, based on what you saw when you examined that equipment, did you think you had reason to believe it was associated with a private investigator. Yes or no.
Conn Abel: No.
Mr. Mesereau: What about the card you just described for the jury. Tell them what was on the card, please.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, there are two questions.
Conn Abel: You asked me two questions, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: I did, and I'm sorry. I'll withdraw it, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Please tell the jury what was on that card that you found with the equipment.
Conn Abel: Do you want me to open it up and look at it. I can tell you exactly what's on it.
Mr. Mesereau: Sure.
Conn Abel: The exact wording on the card is “General, Special and Electronic Investigations. California License P19356. James A. Lupori, Private Investigator, P.O. Box 4250, Culver City, California 90231. Telephone number (310)390-8384”. And “Fax, (310)397-9563”.
Mr. Mesereau: That was in the material. Is that where you found the card.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And for the jury's benefit, the card mentions a number on it. And I don't mean the phone number. It mentions a -- what really appears to be a license number, correct.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: For a licensed investigator, correct.
Conn Abel: Could be, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Could be. What did you think it was.
Conn Abel: There's a license on there. But whether it's actually a license number for that individual or not, I don't know, because I didn't investigate that.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, putting an investigation aside, you, as an investigating officer, look at a card like that. It gives a name. It mentions investigations. It gives a number. Did it ever occur to you that might be a license number for a California licensed investigator.
Conn Abel: Could be.
Mr. Mesereau: Did it ever occur to you that it might be.
Conn Abel: It occurred to me that it couldn't be also.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. So basically you didn't care.
Conn Abel: No, I did care. I just don't know whether P19356 is actually a license number that would be associated with a private investigator, and/or this individual, sir. That's what I'm trying to say.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever check out whether the name on the card and the phone number worked.
Conn Abel: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you think that was part of the scope of your responsibilities.
Conn Abel: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you prefer to just avoid that issue.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as argumentative, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever ask to have anybody test the equipment at any stage of this investigation.
Conn Abel: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Based upon what you knew of Neverland Ranch, did it ever occur to you that security might be a concern to Mr. Jackson.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, let me ask you this: If you're in your house, and you have a phone system, and you pick up your phone and somebody -- you're upstairs and somebody downstairs is speaking on the phone and you listen, have you committed a crime.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object. Calls for a legal conclusion. That's --
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Are there any other documents in that case.
Conn Abel: Yes, there are.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you please tell the jury what those documents are.
Conn Abel: Sure. The first document has handwritten, “Video Briefcase Surveillance System with Audio”. It says, “Video Briefcase”. It has a description of what would be in a video briefcase. It has handwritten, “$4,995”, tax, UPS, a total of $5,443.59, and the word “Total”, and that is on one sheet. The next sheet looks to be either off a computer and/or a typewriter. It is printed instructions for voice-operated telephone recording, professional ten-hour recorder. It has Items 1 through 6 of how to, I believe, operate that type of system. The next one is “Equipment For Law Enforcement Agencies, Professional UHF Transmitters and Receivers, Crystal Controlled”. It has a multitude of -- one, two, three, four, five, six, seven -- seven separate types of wireless transmitters, and a list of optional equipment that could be purchased. And then it says “Other Equipment Systems for Law Enforcement and Export”. And it talks about vehicle tracking, video transmitters, specialized video and optical systems, thermal imaging, et cetera.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me ask you this: Do any of those documents appear to relate to a security system.
Conn Abel: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Sir, I'm showing you one of the documents. It says, “Remote Room Audio Monitor”. Do you see that.
Conn Abel: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: It talks about a phone jack, it talks about an answer relay, it talks about a microphone, correct.
Conn Abel: Yes, it does.
Mr. Mesereau: It says, “Call answer relay from any telephone anywhere in the world”. Do you see that.
Conn Abel: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: You also see another -- what appears to be a drawing, correct.
Conn Abel: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it say on it “Video Surveillance System with Audio”.
Conn Abel: Yes, it does.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it talk about how to set a video monitor with three screens.
Conn Abel: Part of it, yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it talk about an infrared light source for a target area for night illumination.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refer to a video monitor with a nine-inch screen.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refer to an infrared -- excuse me. Does it refer to a miniature camera with a transmitter.
Conn Abel: It does, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it talk about a clock video camera.
Conn Abel: Let me -- talks about that. Smoke alarm, et cetera, cameras.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you telling the jury it never occurred to you that might relate to a security system, Officer.
Conn Abel: I'm not sure that it -- in totality, no, it --
Mr. Mesereau: So you think that had nothing to do with security at Neverland. Is that what you're telling the jury under oath.
Conn Abel: I don't know what to tell you. It looks like -- I mean, this document here, telephone taping system. I don't know what to tell you, except I know that that doesn't relate to security. That relates to the items that are in here for taping telephone calls.
Mr. Mesereau: The items you just agreed that are described on that document do not relate to a possible security system at Neverland.
Conn Abel: I guess you could say -- I could say yes, it could.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You never checked that out, correct.
Conn Abel: No, sir. It wasn't -- it was not in the rooms that I was associated with.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever go to any security personnel at Neverland, show it to them and say, “Have you seen this before. Do you know why it's here”.
Conn Abel: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know if anybody ever did.
Conn Abel: I do not know.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you certainly know that Neverland is a rather large area, correct.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: You have a main gate with security personnel when you enter, correct.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: It's about a 2800-acre ranch, true.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: You have got security personnel working throughout Neverland, correct.
Conn Abel: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see any surveillance-type equipment at Neverland while you were there.
Conn Abel: I don't recall seeing surveillance equipment, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, obviously you knew when you went there that Michael Jackson is one of the world's most famous entertainers, right.
Conn Abel: Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: And you knew that he routinely travels with security personnel to protect him, correct.
Conn Abel: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And did it ever occur to you that security might be a real concern at Neverland.
Conn Abel: Could be.
Mr. Mesereau: Could be.
Conn Abel: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: But you're not sure.
Conn Abel: Well, he has a lot of people going there. I don't know exactly what kind of security he may have. He has a multitude of people in and out of there on a regular basis, so I don't know what kind of security he may have established.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever sit down with any of the government prosecutors and discuss that equipment.
Conn Abel: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever talk to Mr. Sneddon about what you were going to say today when you took the witness stand.
Conn Abel: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you just take the stand without ever discussing your testimony at all with him.
Conn Abel: I don't think I discussed with him what I was going to testify to, no, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you found that equipment, what is the first thing you did with it.
Conn Abel: I looked at it, and gave it to the officer to book as evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Which officer was that.
Conn Abel: That was Detective Cooley.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if the equipment was ever fingerprinted.
Conn Abel: No, sir, I do not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever request that it be fingerprinted.
Conn Abel: I was not in that part of the investigation.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever learned at any point whether or not it was fingerprinted.
Conn Abel: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, when you were at Neverland, did you investigate the kinds of security systems in place at Neverland.
Conn Abel: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether or not, for example, there are cameras that might indicate whether or not someone is entering or leaving.
Conn Abel: I do not know that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether or not there are cameras that might indicate whether or not someone's entering or leaving the main residence.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object. He's already said he didn't do anything. Lack of foundation. I object. Immaterial.
The Court: I'm going home. (Laughter.) See you Monday.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:30 p.m.
