Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Wednesday, March 16, 2005 8:30 a.m.
The Court: Good morning.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
The Court: You may proceed.
Mr. Sanger: May I proceed, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you. I couldn't hear you. I assume your microphone's on.
The Court: I just turned it on. Can you hear me okay.
Mr. Sanger: Yes. Thank you.
Message: STEVE ROBEL Having been previously sworn, resumed the stand and testified further as follows:
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION Continued BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Sergeant Robel, you were going to listen to tapes and compare them to the transcript or do something last night. Did you have a chance to do that.
Steve Robel: I went ahead and I looked over the transcripts of Detective Zelis's interview --
Mr. Sanger: Yes.
Steve Robel: -- okay. -- regarding the -- January 19th.
Mr. Sanger: Correct.
Steve Robel: And I was not present during that, so my thing is I think Detective Zelis would be able to shed more light on that than me.
Mr. Sanger: And he's going to be here soon, I assume.
Steve Robel: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: The transcript does show, however, that you were there. And your position is you were there and then left.
Steve Robel: My position is I was there during the viewing of the video. And when the interviews took place with the individual children, I remained outside the room while Mr. Zonen and Detective Zelis conducted the interviews with the kids.
Mr. Sanger: And Mr. Sneddon as well; is that correct.
Steve Robel: He was -- he was in and out as well. He was in and out, yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. We'll talk to Detective Zelis about that. Let me ask you if you had a chance to look at the other things that you were going to look at. You were going to look at -- or listen to Davellin's tape. Do you recall that.
Steve Robel: Okay. I went over her transcripts more in detail.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Steve Robel: So if you can refresh my memory regarding exactly what happened.
Mr. Sanger: That's fine. I'd ask that you look at page 28 of Davellin's transcript, and --
Steve Robel: Okay. You're talking on the initial one, right, Mr. Sanger. The July interview.
Mr. Sanger: Let me just see here, because the note says page 28. To tell you the truth, now I don't know which one it was. Let me just look here. I think it was the second one.
Steve Robel: Second interview.
Mr. Sanger: Hold on. Don't go anywhere yet. No, I think it was the first one.
Steve Robel: I'm on page 28 on the initial interview.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I'm looking at yesterday's transcript, and there must have been -- okay. I'm sorry, I misread it. It's page 24. That's why I couldn't find it. It was line 28 of the -- of yesterday's transcript, but it's page 24 of the one I'm asking you to look at right now. That's Davellin's -- yes. There it is.
Steve Robel: Page 24 on the initial interview.
Mr. Sanger: That's correct.
Steve Robel: That's where I am.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And do you remember -- yesterday I asked you if Davellin told you that Gavin and Star told her the stories, and you said that was true. And then I asked if she had told you, “Yeah, it's like one tells me and the other one agrees to it”. And I believe you said you had to refresh your recollection either by listening to the tape or reviewing the transcript in order to determine if that's what she, in fact, said.
Steve Robel: Yes, I'm looking at that right now, and that is, in fact, what she said.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And Detective Zelis, in your presence, on that occasion - this being the 7/7/03 transcript - on that occasion, Detective Zelis said, “So are they together when they tell you this”. And Davellin says, “Yeah, most of the time”. And Detective Zelis says, “Most of the time. Okay”. Is that what actually transpired in that interview.
Steve Robel: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: Now, I also asked you if Davellin had -- at some point in the interview had told you that she was always by herself at the ranch, and she was not allowed to be with her mother. And you said you were going to check the transcript to see if that's what she said. And I know you're going to ask me for a page on that, and best laid plans --
Steve Robel: Well, I went over both of my interviews with her, the initial and also the follow-up. And if you can direct me to a page where it states that, I would appreciate it, because I could not find it, where she said that she wasn't allowed to see her mother. I found something that --
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Steve Robel: -- was close to that.
Mr. Sanger: What page did you find there. You can help me on that. How about that.
Steve Robel: I'm trying to find it myself again. It may have been on the follow-up. I thought I had it marked, but I don't. But I did not find it in either one, where she stated that she wasn't able to see her mom.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. But she said something like that, that she was -- she was not with her mom most of the time.
Steve Robel: No, what she said was, is that it was very seldom that she saw her brothers.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Steve Robel: That she did not see them while at the ranch. Very seldom did she see them, because they were with Michael and they were with each other.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Hold on one second. Let me come back to that, and I'll see if I can find a better quote for you on that, or a page on that. I want to do one other thing here with you, if I can. Is this your witness.
Mr. Sneddon: My witness.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I'm sorry. Your Honor, may I approach the witness.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And I'd like to have this document marked next in order. And even if we had some blanks there, if it's all right with the clerk, perhaps we could make this 5036, so it will go with Sergeant Robel's other exhibit. Is that right.
The Court: Yes. I'm waiting for the clerk to tell me, because I never know what exhibits you've marked that I don't know about. I only know the ones that you've marked.
The Clerk: That's fine.
The Court: That's a good number.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you.
The Court: 5036.
Mr. Sanger: With the Court's permission, Mr. Sneddon has no objection to my putting a blank version of this --
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sanger: -- this chronology up on the -- and what's on the overhead is what is also marked as 5036, but the actual exhibit I'm going to hand to the witness, if I may.
The Court: How do you want the record to reflect what that exhibit is. What do you want to call it.
Mr. Sanger: It's a timeline from February 1 to March 13.
The Court: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: Bob, do you happen to have a copy for us. Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Sergeant Robel, you've had a chance to look at that for a moment.
Steve Robel: Yes, I have.
Mr. Sanger: What you have in your hand -- because you haven't written on it yet. I've got it on the board. There are three dates that are typed in on this timeline. One is -- Can I borrow the pointer, if you have it.
Mr. Oxman: Bob. Right there.
Mr. Sanger: Oh, we have our own. Okay. Thanks, whoever brought that.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. One -- and I don't want to shine this in the court reporter's eyes. So we're okay, right. I'm going from the top. I don't want to do something wrong here. One is the 16th. And we have 2-16, “Brad Miller Interview”, showing February 2003, the 16th of February, 2003. Is that your understanding of when that taped interview occurred.
Steve Robel: I believe it was.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And then we have 2-19 to 2-20, which is in the late evening hours of 2-19 onto the early morning hours of 2-20 when the rebuttal tape was being filmed; is that your understanding.
Steve Robel: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And then we have 2-20, later in the day, which would be February 20, 2003, we have the DCFS interview. Is that your understanding of when that occurred.
Steve Robel: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, what I'd like you to do, if you would, sir, is put your name once again where it says “witness”. And I note last time you say “Sergeant S. Robel”, and it looks like it says “515”.
Steve Robel: Well, I just put my body number down there.
Mr. Sanger: That's your badge number, or body number, or something.
Steve Robel: Body number.
Mr. Sanger: Everybody in the sheriff's department has a different number so you can figure it out.
Steve Robel: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. All right. Now, what I'd like -- what I'd like to do, based on your investigation as the lead investigator in this case, is I would like you to -- in general, and then I'm going to ask you specifically. But in general, I'd like you to try to put in some of the important dates that you have learned from your investigation in this case, so that the jury will have an idea of what was going on during this February and March period of time. Okay.
Steve Robel: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And then it will not show up here, but it's going to show up there, and we'll put that up after you finish. First of all, do you know when the “Living with Michael Jackson” aired in the United Kingdom.
Steve Robel: I believe that was on the 4th. 4th or 5th, one of those two. I'm not positive.
Mr. Sanger: Could it have been the 3rd.
Steve Robel: It could have been.
Mr. Sanger: I'll tell you what. For now, then, why don't -- on your copy, why don't -- without directing it to a particular number, since you're not sure, why don't you just, above the general area of the 3rd, 4th and 5th, put “Living with Michael Jackson”.
Steve Robel: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: And do you know when the Arvizos flew to Miami on Chris Tucker's private chartered jet.
Steve Robel: I believe it was the 6th.
Mr. Sanger: Could it have been the 5th. Is there something you can refer to to refresh your recollection.
Steve Robel: Well, I would like to.
Mr. Sanger: If you have it, could you do that.
Steve Robel: I don't have it up here, the timeline.
Mr. Sanger: Do you have a second to confer with the prosecutors. Can you get something that would help you.
Steve Robel: Like I said, I don't have it up here.
Mr. Sanger: That's what I'm saying. Do you need a second. Perhaps you could confer with Mr. Sneddon and see if there's something that might help you.
Mr. Sneddon: What, do you want me to testify.
The Court: Well, Counsel, the way you have to do that, either you're prepared to give him the documents that you want him to testify from or you're not. You don't ask the other side to start producing materials for you.
Mr. Sanger: Well, I didn't mean to -- the witness was indicating he thought he had something.
The Court: Well, if he doesn't have it, you have to move along to the next question.
Mr. Sanger: That's fine.
Mr. Sanger: So in other words, whatever you have, you don't believe you have it in the courtroom; is that what you're saying.
Steve Robel: That is correct. If you have something that would refresh my memory, that would be great.
Mr. Sanger: We'll go over this with other witnesses, then. Do you know the date of the return, the date when Michael Jackson and the Arvizos came back to Santa Barbara and went out to Neverland Ranch.
Steve Robel: I want to say I believe it was the 7th.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. February 7th.
Steve Robel: February 7th, yes.
Mr. Sanger: So why don't you make a note of that. And just to be clear, as the lead investigator, it's your responsibility to review all of the evidence, including other reports and other things that people have done in this case; is that correct.
Steve Robel: That is correct. But there's so much involved in this, that some of these things, it's been a while since I have reviewed them.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Do you know -- so the Arvizos and Mr. Jackson come to the ranch on February 7th. Was it in the evening; do you recall.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to the lack of personal knowledge on the part of the officer as to the date. He wasn't there.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Do you feel you can give us a timeline of essentially -- earlier you testified about some dates in March when you believe the Arvizos were at the ranch.
Steve Robel: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Actually, Your Honor, can I impose an objection. This is really beyond the scope of direct examination. I didn't put this witness on for a timeline, and I didn't think I got into any of this. And he wasn't prepared to testify to it, so I object it's beyond the direct.
Mr. Sanger: I believe on direct he did talk about certain dates and --
Mr. Sneddon: Connected to the search warrant.
Mr. Sanger: If he's not the witness who's able to do this, we will certainly be able to do it. I do think he talked about the March dates earlier.
The Court: He did discuss the time when the family had returned from Miami and were at the ranch. The problem I'm having is, after listening to all that testimony yesterday, I'm not sure which one of you asked that question.
Mr. Sanger: I'll tell you what we'll do, because -- may I ask a question. And I'll withdraw whatever is pending so I can ask a different question.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Mr. Sanger: Sergeant Robel, as a lead investigator in this case, who do you feel from your department would be best able to present a chronology based on a review of the documents.
Steve Robel: Well, the people that were assigned to the case, we all were familiar with the timeline. But there were so many different dates in there, that I'm familiar with it as well as anybody else. But I would like something up here to refresh my memory to make sure I'm correct on the exact chronological events that took place.
Mr. Sanger: And you have those materials, but you don't have them in the courtroom.
Steve Robel: I don't have them with me in my binder.
Mr. Sanger: But you do have those materials somewhere.
Steve Robel: Yes, we do.
Mr. Sanger: So what I'll do at this point, Your Honor, is I'm not going to ask any further questions on this. I would like to have Sergeant Robel review this, since he is the lead investigator, so he can give us a timeline. And in the meantime, if we can work it out with another witness, we'll do that.
The Court: That's fine.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
The Court: Mr. Sneddon, you look like you might want to say something.
Mr. Sneddon: Am I allowed.
The Court: Well, I have to decide after you start talking.
Mr. Sneddon: Judge, I just want to make it clear that I'm not trying to stop Mr. Sanger's cross, but this was not the purpose for this person at this particular point in time. And we had intended to do much the same thing at another point in time, and --
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: And I don't want to --
The Court: I did agree with you, that a lot of what was being asked was beyond the scope of the direct examination. But you didn't object, and I thought that was fine.
Mr. Sneddon: I didn't realize we were going to plow this field again today. So I figured it's time to stop.
The Court: All right. So are you going to ask -- go ahead, Counsel.
Mr. Sanger: I'm sorry. All I was going to do is ask that -- I'm going to officially ask, or on the record ask that Sergeant Robel review his materials. And rather than hold us up at this moment, ask that he review his materials and then ask for permission to call him back sometime perhaps later today or tomorrow. I understand there will be other police officers, so we can cover this. If in the meantime Detective Zelis or somebody else can do it, that's fine, too.
Mr. Sneddon: Judge, with regard to that request, could counsel and I approach the bench for just a second. It's a personal thing --
The Court: No.
Mr. Sneddon: -- that you should be aware of.
The Court: No.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor --
The Court: If you're through with this witness - you've asked him to prepare - I'll have him step down. If you're not through, I want you to ask any questions that you have.
Mr. Sanger: I am through with this witness except for the preparation. And I understand what Mr. Sneddon said and will accommodate the witness.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sanger: There is an issue, and I understand, and we'll accommodate him.
The Court: You can talk to each other about that.
Mr. Sanger: Fine.
The Court: Do you want to have some redirect.
Mr. Sneddon: With the Court's permission, yes.
The Court: All right. Go ahead.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Detective Robel, first a couple of easy questions for you. Prior to the time that you were assigned to this particular case -- excuse me just one second. Prior to the time that you were assigned to this particular case, had you and I ever met.
Steve Robel: Prior to the case, no.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, I asked you to look at Detective Zelis's report last night, and specifically asked you to review the report with a view as to whether or not that report contained information about the Arvizo children saying that they had seen the rebuttal tape before your actual first interview with them. Not “seen the rebuttal tape”, but participated in some interviews that we have now called “the rebuttal tape”. Did you do that.
Steve Robel: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Did that refresh your recollection.
Steve Robel: Yes, it did.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you, in fact, have that information prior to the initial interview with the children.
Steve Robel: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, on November the 18th of 2003, you've told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury that you went and participated in the execution of a search warrant that was authorized by a Judge of the Superior Court, correct.
Steve Robel: That is correct.
Mr. Sneddon: On that particular date, was there also an arrest warrant issued by that Judge for the defendant, Michael Jackson.
Steve Robel: Yes, there was.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object and move to strike. Object and move to strike on the grounds of relevance and also beyond the scope of cross.
The Court: Overruled. The answer was “Yes, there was”. Next question.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, Mr. Sanger asked you a lot of questions about what you did from after you interviewed the Arvizo family on a couple of occasions until the point that you executed the search warrant on November 18th. Do you recall those questions.
Steve Robel: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, was there a decision made with regard to how those search warrants were going to be executed.
Steve Robel: Yes, there was.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there a strategy involved in that.
Steve Robel: Yes, there was.
Mr. Sneddon: And what was that.
Steve Robel: After interviewing --
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object. This calls for hearsay, and it does not appear to be relevant, and it's beyond the scope of cross.
The Court: Doesn't it -- isn't that exactly what you were going into yesterday.
Mr. Sneddon: Absolutely.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sneddon: Go ahead and tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury.
Steve Robel: After conducting the interviews with the Arvizo family, myself, along with the other investigators, including the D.A.'s Office, met and we conferred and we decided at that point, like we do on several investigations, sometimes, you know, we'll go in and advance further and interview people to gather more information prior to serving a search warrant. In this case we chose not to, due to the nature of the investigation, and the high-profile case being involved with Michael Jackson. So what we decided to do is drop a search warrant and serve it. And we did it that way because if we were to go out and contact people prior to that, we were concerned about evidence that we were looking for that would corroborate the statements of the children would be destroyed or would not be there, and it would compromise our investigation. So that's the reason why we chose to serve the search warrant. And then after serving the search warrant, or during the search warrant service, I was able to -- due to the statements from the children, I was already corroborating some of their statements to me as I was walking through and searching through the house and things that they depicted.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to move to strike the last part as being nonresponsive.
The Court: I'm going to strike the last paragraph that starts, “And then after serving the search warrant”.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
The Court: And I'm going to admonish the jury to disregard that statement as a conclusion of the witness.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I don't --
The Court: It's nonresponsive.
Mr. Sneddon: It's nonresponsive.
The Court: It was nonresponsive and a conclusion of the witness.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, sir. All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, Detective Robel, at the time that you executed the search warrant on November 18th of 2003 - okay. - did you, during the course of the execution of that search warrant observe, you personally, observe items or things that you felt corroborated the statements of the Arvizo children.
Mr. Sanger: Objection, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: On the date that you executed the search warrant, did you see the mannequin.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see the briefcase with the pornography.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Object.
Mr. Sanger: Yes, objection. Violates the Court's rule.
The Court: You didn't say “adult material”.
Mr. Sneddon: Oh, God. I'm sorry, Your Honor.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: I --
The Court: Rephrase your question. Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, you know, you think like a lawyer. I really apologize. I apologize to everybody.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Did you see the briefcase with the adult material in it.
Steve Robel: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you go to the arcade.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see the jukebox.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you go in the cellar.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see the wine.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you go up the stairway to Mr. Jackson's bedroom.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, I believe this is beyond the scope of cross. I object.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you stand on the landing and look towards Mr. Jackson's bed.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: On the day that the search warrant was executed, simultaneous with the execution of the search warrant, were other search warrants executed.
Steve Robel: Yes, there were.
Mr. Sneddon: And were there interviews that were done simultaneous off the ranch premises.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And who was the person who was interviewed.
Steve Robel: Jesus Salas.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, don't tell us anything about what was said, because we'll get into that later. But were you informed of the results of that interview while you were at the ranch that morning.
Steve Robel: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you present when a search warrant was executed on the residence of Marc Schaffel.
Steve Robel: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Let's talk a little bit about some of the things that Mr. Sanger asked you this morning and yesterday. You were asked by Mr. Sanger to review some statements with regard to Davellin, and specifically to Davellin with regard to that portion of the transcript where she is describing events that -- where her brothers are present and they're talking about things.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall that.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: From reviewing the transcript, can you tell us - tell the jury more importantly - tell them whether or not, from the review of the transcripts, that she's referring to statements that have occurred on the ranch or after they left the ranch.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to -- I'm going to object. That calls for a conclusion. It's either a statement of the witness or it's not.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you tell from a review of the transcript as to when those statements are made.
Steve Robel: No.
Mr. Sneddon: And just to be clear, the conversations themselves, can you tell when -- the conversations she's talking about, when they occurred.
Steve Robel: I can tell when they occurred during their stay on Neverland, but exact dates, no.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you were asked yesterday by Mr. Sanger with regard to whether or not Davellin told you that she was aware of the urine bottles incident. Do you recall that.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you have a chance to go back and look at the transcript with regard to her statements to you about that.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And can you tell from a review of the transcript when she was aware of the urine bottles incident.
Steve Robel: It was --
Mr. Sanger: Objection. That calls for speculation.
Mr. Sneddon: Let me rephrase it, Judge. I can probably help you.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you tell from a review of the transcript whether or not she was aware of the urine bottle specimen while she was at the ranch or --
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. I just have a couple more. You were, you've told the jury, one of the officers who interviewed Gavin Arvizo in the initial interview and in the follow-up interview, correct.
Steve Robel: That is correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And during the initial interview, Gavin Arvizo disclosed to you certain things that Mr. Jackson did to him, correct.
Steve Robel: That is correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, can you describe to the ladies and gentlemen of the jury what Gavin's attitude or demeanor was at the time that you got into that part of the conversation.
Steve Robel: Prior to getting into that area, we were just discussing just his stay on the ranch, and he appeared to be, you know, fine with talking with us, open, very positive. As I got into questioning him regarding the actual molestation acts and having him share with that openly, immediately noticed a major change in Gavin's demeanor, and he basically became very, very quiet, folded his arms, and just sunk down into his chair. And it took me approximately ten minutes or so to reassure him that he was doing the right thing. And he, at one point in time, kind of got a little -- a little choked up. And eventually he was able to go on ahead and disclose what acts occurred.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object and move to strike the last sentence as a conclusion of the witness.
The Court: Stricken. The jury's admonished to disregard the last sentence.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, yesterday Mr. Sanger asked you several questions about statements that Gavin Arvizo made to you about the number of times that he told you that Mr. Jackson molested him. Do you recall those questions.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall that on a couple of occasions he told you he thought it was between five and seven times.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall in the courtroom here he indicated that there were at least two times that he was very specific about the information in which he was -- the defendant molested him. Do you recall that.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you find any inconsistencies between what he told you and what he said in the courtroom.
Mr. Sanger: Objection, Your Honor. That calls for speculation and comment on a witness's testimony.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you present during a conversation where Gavin Arvizo explained the five and seven -- the five figure that he gave you versus the two figure that he testified in court.
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did he say in that regard.
Mr. Sanger: Objection; vague as to time.
Mr. Sneddon: It's a --
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Sneddon: Go ahead.
Steve Robel: During my initial interview with him, he had told me that -- that he was specific about two events that he recalled occurring. And he also told me that he believes that it happened between five and seven times. And he could not articulate exactly what occurred, but he believes that it happened more than twice.
Mr. Sneddon: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: Recross.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Now, you said you were aware of the rebuttal tape. How were you aware of the rebuttal tape.
Steve Robel: During interviews with Mrs. Arvizo.
Mr. Sanger: With Janet Arvizo.
Steve Robel: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: You had no idea what the rebuttal tape looked like at the time you talked to Janet Arvizo before November 18th; is that correct.
Steve Robel: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you did not ask any of the children about the rebuttal tape prior to the search on November 18th, 2003, correct.
Steve Robel: I believe that's correct.
Mr. Sanger: May I just put up 5035. That's the timeline that --
The Court: Yes, that's fine.
Mr. Sanger: It's already in evidence. Just so we have a visual here.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So again, search, November 18th. And sometime after that -- sometime between November 18th and January 19th, you saw a portion of the rebuttal video, correct.
Steve Robel: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: And one of the other officers said, “Look at this”, and he was looking at it on his screen, and you came over and looked at it.
Steve Robel: Yeah. It was a DVD, or video.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And then the first time you watched the full tape was January 19th; is that correct.
Steve Robel: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: When you first -- who was it that showed you this tape, by the way.
Steve Robel: Detective Bonner.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So when Detective Bonner showed you this tape, he called you over and said, “Look at this”, right.
Steve Robel: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: And when you first saw, it was rather remarkable, wasn't it.
Steve Robel: Remarkable in what way.
Mr. Sanger: I'm asking you. Let me ask you this, then: It did not appear to you at that time to be consistent with what you had been hearing from this family up until the time you saw it.
Steve Robel: When I saw bits and pieces of what he showed me on that day, I was not alarmed by that because of -- I recalled what Janet had told me in her initial interview about them being forced to do that by Dieter, so it was not alarming to me at all regarding what I was seeing and the way she was acting, if that's what you're asking.
Mr. Sanger: So forced to say things like “Call Michael Jackson'daddy' and 'father figure'”, and all that.
Steve Robel: Exactly.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And you weren't -- you've sat here now, you've seen the cards where that's what this family does. They call people “father” and “mother”, and they tell them they love them and they do all that, right.
Steve Robel: According to the cards, yes.
Mr. Sanger: You weren't aware of that at the time, were you.
Steve Robel: No, I wasn't.
Mr. Sanger: So when she explained, and later the kids explained, “Oh, Dieter made us do it”, you weren't aware that that's what they, in fact, did spontaneously prior to ever meeting Dieter, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me.
Mr. Sanger: That was a long question.
Mr. Sneddon: It's vague, ambiguous and --
Mr. Sanger: Let me withdraw it.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sanger: I think it was compound, actually. Let me try to break it down.
Mr. Sanger: Prior to -- let's put it this way: When did you first learn that this family would send very effusive cards and letters to people calling them “mommy” or “daddy”, and telling them they're part of their family, and that sort of thing.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object to the question as “this family” is vague. If he has specific people he wants to refer to, I think he should do that.
Mr. Sanger: I'm referring to Janet, Star, Gavin and Davellin, whose names already show up on the cards in evidence in this case with regard to Palanker and Michael Jackson.
The Court: Just a moment. I don't know how this has deteriorated where both of you are talking freely to the jury about your questions. So let's go back to the --
Mr. Sanger: I'm sorry, Your Honor.
The Court: Let's go back to the specific objections, and not respond to them. The objection is overruled. You may answer now. And I'll have it read back, because there's been a conversation take place.
Steve Robel: Thank you.
The Court Reporter: Prior to -- let's put it this way: When did you first learn that this family would send very effusive cards and letters to people calling them “mommy” or “daddy”, and telling them they're part of their family, and that sort of thing.
Steve Robel: Upon reviewing, after the search warrant, some of the items that were seized, when I was going through some of those items, I ran across some of the cards and so forth that you have displayed here in court.
Mr. Sanger: Now, the cards to Miss Palanker, you were here in court when those were displayed.
Steve Robel: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: You didn't see those cards until a couple months ago; is that correct.
Steve Robel: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: Now, you indicated that you proceeded -- Mr. Sneddon was asking you how you proceeded with this investigation. And basically, you said that you talked to the family and you didn't -- you didn't develop other evidence before going to get the search warrants, correct.
Steve Robel: Meaning --
Mr. Sanger: I'm paraphrasing what you were saying, and perhaps not accurately, because you're not agreeing. I believe in response to Mr. Sneddon's question, you said on November 18th, you got search warrants, and you proceeded in that fashion rather than going out and interviewing other people, other than the family, and I guess Dr. Katz, right.
Steve Robel: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And I take it from what you are saying, you did that, and I think you specifically said, because this was a high-profile case, correct.
Steve Robel: What I meant is, is that due to the nature of the case being a molestation case, this is not something that -- it's out of the ordinary for me, as an investigator, that, on molestation cases, you do not --
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to move to strike. That's a narrative and not responsive.
The Court: Overruled. He's answering your question.
Mr. Sanger: Go ahead.
Steve Robel: That we take those differently, and each one is dealt with differently as far as how far we pursue it before we do a warrant, because it would compromise evidence that we would possibly lose if we were to go out and contact the people.
Mr. Sanger: Now, you once said that you were concerned about, for instance, calling the Beverly Hills Police Department, didn't you say. Not here in these proceedings, but previously. Were you aware of that. I don't know if you said it or --
Steve Robel: I don't know if it was me. I think it was one of the other investigators that was assigned to that.
Mr. Sanger: And you were concerned about calling the Beverly Hills Police Department why.
Steve Robel: I --
Mr. Sneddon: Judge, I object. Lack of knowledge, personal knowledge.
Mr. Sanger: That's fine.
Mr. Sanger: If you don't know -- you're the lead investigator, right.
The Court: Just a minute.
Mr. Sanger: Let me withdraw it.
The Court: The objection is sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: I'm basing this question on your position here as the lead investigator. I take it, as lead investigator, you have a say -- or you discuss with your superiors, but you have a say on what happens in the case, correct.
Steve Robel: Mr. Sanger, I have a say in what happens in the case. But the magnitude of this case, you know, I'm the lead, but I don't know every little thing that goes on and gets my approval. So I'm unaware of some things that don't go on on a regular basis.
Mr. Sanger: Well, you're aware, for instance, as you have told us, that Mr. Sneddon himself went down to Beverly Hills and did some investigation, correct.
Steve Robel: He went down to Beverly Hills. But it wasn't for investigation.
Mr. Sanger: Well, sir, he went to Brad Miller's office --
The Court: Just a minute, Counsel. I just feel that the examination is losing its focus. Every time he answers something a little differently, you go down that street. And we're -- I wonder if you could get back to what you were asking him about originally.
Mr. Sanger: This is --
The Court: I don't --
Mr. Sanger: I can indicate to the Court --
The Court: I think you're taking every side street that comes up, and I'd like you to concentrate on your recross of this witness.
Mr. Sanger: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: The recross, and the focus of this, Sergeant Robel, is what you just told us about, you told Mr. Sneddon, this is a high-profile case, that's why you proceeded in this fashion. I asked you about that, and you responded --
Mr. Sneddon: Object as a narrative.
The Court: Just ask your next question.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Mr. Sanger: And one of the things that your department did, because you said this was a sensitive case, was not contact the Beverly Hills Police Department; is that correct.
Steve Robel: I did not say that, to not contact Beverly Hills. That wasn't me that said that.
Mr. Sanger: Somebody in your department said that; is that right.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as lack of personal knowledge.
Mr. Sanger: If you know.
The Court: The objection is overruled. I'll have the question read back, because he added something at the end. Go ahead.
Steve Robel: Thank you.
The Court Reporter: Somebody in your department said that; is that right.
Steve Robel: I believe so, yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And the reason for that was, you were worried about leaks.
Steve Robel: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, do you have any information whatsoever that the Beverly Hills Police Department would leak information.
Mr. Sneddon: Object, Your Honor, calls for speculation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: It's just “yes” or “no”. All right.
Mr. Sanger: In fact, at that same time period you contacted the Los Angeles Police Department to go see where Mr. Moslehi lived or confirm his address, didn't you.
Steve Robel: Mr. Moslehi.
Mr. Sanger: Moslehi. However you say it. I apologize to him, but --
Steve Robel: I believe we did.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And in any event -- so sometimes you would -- before the 18th, there were occasions when you did make some inquiries and occasions when you didn't, based on your concern about sensitivity; is that right.
Steve Robel: I guess that would be a fair way of putting it, yes.
Mr. Sanger: And on November 18th, you not only got search warrants to search for evidence, but as you just told Mr. Sneddon, you also got an arrest warrant; is that correct.
Steve Robel: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: So November 18th, you and your department formed the opinion that you should -- you had probable cause, you should go out and arrest Mr. Michael Jackson in this case, based on what you had then, right.
Steve Robel: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then you investigated the case after you got the arrest warrant.
Steve Robel: That's incorrect.
Mr. Sanger: You didn't investigate the case after you got the arrest warrant.
Steve Robel: We investigated the case prior to the search warrant. We continued to investigate the case, and we are currently continuing to investigate the case as this trial is going on. This is a continuing investigation.
Mr. Sanger: So a part of the continuing investigation you're just talking about, for instance, is an attempt to discredit witnesses who have come forward to say that the Arvizos are not telling the truth; is that correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to this as beyond the scope.
The Court: I'm not going to sustain the objection. Go ahead.
Steve Robel: Can you repeat that, please.
The Court Reporter: So a part of the continuing investigation you're just talking about, for instance, is an attempt to discredit witnesses who have come forward to say that the Arvizos are not telling the truth; is that correct.
Steve Robel: To discredit, no. It's when we receive reports from you, as the defense, that we have accusations or things in your reports, we're going to go and see if we can interview them to clarify and to make sure that that is correct. And we're also having other people coming forward besides your witnesses that you've talked to that we're following up leads regarding this case.
Mr. Sanger: All right. When you say “our witnesses”, we submit reports to you, part of what our investigators do through our office, right.
Steve Robel: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And give you an opportunity to follow up and talk to them and figure out what's going on, right.
Steve Robel: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: And there have been a couple of witnesses - without going into a lot of detail - a couple of witnesses very recently, who I think have already been referred to -- but I think there have been a couple of witnesses who came forward and said they would talk only to both sides at the same time, correct.
Steve Robel: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you went down -- I think you personally went down once with Mr. Sneddon, once with Mr. Zonen, and interviewed these witnesses, correct.
Steve Robel: No, I just went down with Mr. Zonen. I didn't go with Mr. Sneddon.
Mr. Sanger: You're aware that Mr. Sneddon went down on another witness with another investigator, is that --
Steve Robel: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And as to one of those witnesses, you had your officers -- as lead investigator, you had your officers, or law enforcement agents, go door to door in the neighborhood to see if people could say anything about the witness who had come forward, correct.
Steve Robel: No.
Mr. Sanger: Were you aware that --
Steve Robel: I had them go down there and make sure that was the address where that particular person was living. It's part of making sure that we have the right location.
Mr. Sanger: And knocked on the doors, and asked people about their neighbor, the witness, correct.
Steve Robel: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you ran a -- about a 150-page Equifax credit check on one of the witnesses, didn't you, or had it done; is that correct.
Steve Robel: A credit Equifax.
Mr. Sanger: Equifax credit check.
Steve Robel: I'm unaware of that.
Mr. Sanger: Did you ever run an Equifax credit check on Janet Arvizo or any of the other people that are accusing Mr. Jackson.
Steve Robel: We have run backgrounds on everyone involved in this case, whether they're a witness or whatever. That is procedure for us to find out who we're dealing with before we send our investigators out.
Mr. Sanger: Did you ever run an Equifax credit check on Janet Arvizo.
Steve Robel: I believe we did.
Mr. Sanger: You did. An Equifax.
Steve Robel: I believe so. I'm not sure.
Mr. Sanger: If you find that, would you provide it in discovery to us.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, that's argumentative.
Mr. Sanger: Well, but --
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Very well. I have no further questions.
Mr. Sneddon: No further questions.
The Court: All right. You may step down.
Mr. Sanger: Subject to the request that he take a look at those materials.
The Court: Well, we'll discuss that. Call your next witness. He's always subject to re-call. He's not excused.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Steve Robel: Mr. Sanger.
The Bailiff: I'll get it. Excuse me.
Mr. Sneddon: Detective Zelis.
The Court: Please remain standing and raise your right hand.
Message: PAUL ZELIS Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Paul Zelis: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Paul Zelis: Paul Zelis. Z-e-l-i-s.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Good morning, Mr. Zelis.
Paul Zelis: Good morning.
Mr. Sneddon: You're employed by the Santa Barbara County Sheriff's Department.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And would you tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury how long you've been employed by them.
Paul Zelis: I've been employed with the sheriff's department -- well, I've been in law enforcement for about 12 years. First four years was with the marshal's office, Santa Barbara. And remaining with the sheriff's department.
Mr. Sneddon: How long have you been a detective.
Paul Zelis: Almost four years.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to the investigation involving the defendant in this case, Michael Jackson, were you assigned at some point to be an investigator on that investigation.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall when that was.
Paul Zelis: It was June the 13th. It was a Friday.
Mr. Sneddon: Of what year.
Paul Zelis: 2003, I'm sorry.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And the jurors probably heard this, but we should hear it from you. You participated in some interviews of the Arvizo children; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And those interviews were videotaped.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at some point on November the 18th of 2003, did you participate in the execution of a search warrant at Neverland Valley Ranch.
Paul Zelis: I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And what was your role in the execution of the search warrant.
Paul Zelis: To attempt to locate evidence.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you assigned to a particular place to search.
Paul Zelis: Yes. I was assigned to the main house, specifically Mr. Jackson's bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: Any particular place within Mr. Jackson's bedroom.
Paul Zelis: The upstairs part of the two-story suite.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I want to show you an item that's in evidence as No. 340. Excuse me, Counsel. Ask you to take a look at that for just a moment.
The Clerk: That's not 340.
The Court: You have not identified that exhibit correctly.
Mr. Sneddon: I said 340, Your Honor.
The Court: It's not 340.
Paul Zelis: 317.
Mr. Sneddon: No, that's the item number.
The Court: 340 is two disks.
Mr. Sneddon: You're right. I transposed the numbers. 470.
The Clerk: It hasn't been received in evidence.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize that item.
Paul Zelis: Yes, I do.
The Court: It's not in evidence yet.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I'll take care of that right now, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: The item that's in front of you as 470, is that the right number.
Paul Zelis: Exhibit No. 470.
Mr. Sneddon: Let me write that down. I had the wrong number written down. All right. When and where did you see that for the first time.
Paul Zelis: I saw that during our search warrant on November 18th. And I first located this in the downstairs closet next to the stairway that leads up to Mr. Jackson's bed.
Mr. Sneddon: And after you looked -- after you saw it, did you take it into your custody.
Paul Zelis: I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you open it.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you see what the contents were.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what were the contents.
Paul Zelis: Pornographic --
Mr. Sneddon: You can't use that word. I already messed up. It's “adult material”.
Paul Zelis: Adult material.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, I --
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to ask the Court to explain the significance.
Mr. Sneddon: That's fine.
The Court: I think I already did tell the jury the significance. Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: “Adult material”; okay.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What did you see inside.
Paul Zelis: Commercially produced adult material magazines.
Mr. Sneddon: And after you had opened it up and observed the contents, what did you do with it.
Paul Zelis: I gave it to Detective Padilla to be booked into evidence.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you give Detective -- without saying what you said, did you give him information as to where it was located.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was Detective Padilla located when you gave it to him.
Paul Zelis: He was within the downstairs den area of the two-bedroom suite.
Mr. Sneddon: I move that be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
Mr. Sanger: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: Two photographs I'm going to hand you. With regard to the first photograph, Your Honor, and Counsel -- I'm sorry, let me have those back, because one of those is a new photo. The other one's already in evidence. Now, with regard to the first photograph, it's marked for identification purposes, which is 85. Do you see that photograph.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is -- is that photograph an accurate depiction of what it purports to represent.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: I move that 85 be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
Mr. Sanger: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to People's 86, do you recognize that photograph.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that -- that's already in evidence. Do you recognize what's depicted in that photograph.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when is -- where was that when you first saw the items depicted in that photograph.
Paul Zelis: I pulled it out of the closet as depicted in Exhibit No. 85. I pulled it to -- outside the closet in an area of the floor that I could open it. Opened it and had a picture taken of it.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, may we have the Elmo turned on, please.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. With regard to the photograph that's depicted on the Elmo above, what does that show, Detective.
The Court: What exhibit is that.
Mr. Sneddon: This is 85.
The Court: Thank you.
Paul Zelis: It shows the briefcase in its original location within the closet.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was that closet located.
Paul Zelis: It was directly next to the stairway leading up to the upstairs bedroom area.
Mr. Sneddon: And now I'm going to put 86 on the board. With regard to the Exhibit 86, does that depict the condition of the briefcase when you first opened it up.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you personally go through and inventory all the items inside the briefcase at that time.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sneddon: So what did you do after you opened it up and looked at it.
Paul Zelis: I had forensics take a picture of it, and I closed it, sealed it, and booked it into evidence.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. We can take that down. All right. I've shown you a photograph, No. 75, which is in evidence, I believe, Madam Clerk. That's what it says on the tag, so I'm -- Do you recognize what's depicted in that photograph.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And what is that.
Paul Zelis: It is the upstairs bed area of the two-story suite.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that the area in which you were conducting your search.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, do you see anything depicted in that photograph that contained items that you seized on that day of November 18.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Did you seize things from other areas of the bedroom.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where.
Paul Zelis: In a nightstand directly opposite of this picture that's on the right-hand side of this.
Mr. Sneddon: I got the wrong picture. Okay. We'll correct that.
Paul Zelis: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: That was a test. All right. The next photograph that's in front of you, the number on that is.
Paul Zelis: 338.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that in evidence.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. With regard to 338, when and where was the first time that you saw the item depicted in that photograph.
Paul Zelis: I located this photograph of the children in the nightstand, as I previously mentioned, to the right of the bed, in the bottom drawer.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Would you turn that one over, if you would. The next photograph, the number on that is.
Paul Zelis: 83.
Mr. Sneddon: And that, I believe, is not in evidence. Do you recognize what's depicted in that photograph.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that photograph an accurate depiction of what it purports to represent.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Move it be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
Mr. Sanger: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: And the next photograph, Officer -- Detective.
Paul Zelis: 285.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to 285, do you recognize that.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that an accurate depiction of what it purports to represent.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: I move that 285 be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
The Court: Is there any objection.
Mr. Sanger: No objection, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: We're going to need the Elmo again, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I'm going to have Exhibit No. 338 put up on the Elmo. Now, do you recognize that photograph.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was it the first time you saw it.
Paul Zelis: In -- located within the second bottom drawer of the nightstand to the right of the bed.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to that particular exhibit, 33 -- with regard to the photograph depicted in the Photograph 338, what did you do with that photograph.
Paul Zelis: I had it booked into evidence.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recognize the people in that photograph.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And had you met them prior to the execution of the search warrant.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you say you had it booked into evidence. Would you describe to the jury what you did with regard to this particular item to get it processed and booked into evidence.
Paul Zelis: I provided it to Detective Padilla, who was gathering all the evidence and taking note of who located it and where it was found.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, we're going to put the Exhibit 83 on the board. Do you recognize what's depicted in the Exhibit 83.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to that particular exhibit and the magazine, did you direct that photograph be taken.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: By whom.
Paul Zelis: Forensics.
Mr. Sneddon: And when and where was that magazine the first time you saw it.
Paul Zelis: Just as you see it there inside the drawer.
Mr. Sneddon: So that's exactly where it was before it was touched.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Do you recall how many magazines that you found of a similar nature in that particular drawer.
Paul Zelis: An exact amount, I don't. But I know there were several. Exact amount, I don't know. I know there were several.
Mr. Sneddon: Oh, “several”. I couldn't hear the last word. Okay. Thank you. All right. You can take that down. I'm going to place 285 up on the board right now and ask you if you recognize it when it gets cleared up. All right. 285, do you recognize that.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you play a role in having those items displayed on the bed.
Paul Zelis: Yes, I placed them there.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you present when the photograph was taken.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And where are -- the items that are depicted in that photograph, where did you obtain them from.
Paul Zelis: These were all items located in the bottom drawer of that nightstand.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. You can take that down. Your Honor, may I have just a moment to get the right photograph.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I think we can clarify this. I've handed you a photograph that's marked as People's 77; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And People's 77, do you recognize that.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, does that photograph depict the location of where you found the items that you just testified about.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. That felt pen, is that still up there somewhere.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sneddon: No. No, it isn't, because I took it. Now, on the exhibit People's 77 - okay. - I want you to just put your initials on the location of the item of furniture which you obtained those magazines in the photograph.
Paul Zelis: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: And what have you put on the photograph.
Paul Zelis: My initials. “PZ”.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Thank you. During the course of the time that you executed this warrant, did you see a mannequin in the room.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was the mannequin when you saw it for the first time.
Paul Zelis: In the upstairs bedroom area of the two-story suite.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you saw the mannequin, what did you do with it.
Paul Zelis: I booked it into evidence.
Mr. Sneddon: So this was another item that you took down and gave to Deputy Padilla.
Paul Zelis: Detective Padilla, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Detective Padilla.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you just generally describe what the mannequin looked like.
Paul Zelis: It's a mannequin, life-sized mannequin of an eight-year-old Afro-American girl.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, during the time that you were processing these pieces of evidence, were you wearing gloves.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: During the course of the search that day, did you see anything that looked like some kind of a folding chair or a futon of some kind in Mr. Jackson's room.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you describe where it was and what it looked like to you.
Paul Zelis: It was -- it was actually to the right of the right nightstand where I've located these items. It was like a little cushion seat. I think you can fold it out. I'm not quite sure of this, but it looked like the type that could be folded out and slept on.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to move to strike based on speculation, Your Honor, the last part.
The Court: Sustained. And it's stricken.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, at this time I have one other exhibit I'd like to have marked for identification purposes, which is 561. And it's a brown bag with the number in black at the top, 365, and its contents.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Detective Zelis, I've handed you an item that's marked as -- I forgot the number. What's the number. 571.
Paul Zelis: 561.
Mr. Sneddon: 561. Do you recognize that bag.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you please take the item out of the bag. Do you recognize the item you took out of the bag.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: When and where was that the first time that you saw it.
Paul Zelis: I saw this in the upstairs bed area of the two-story suite.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did you do with it after you saw it.
Paul Zelis: I seized it and had it booked into evidence.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember specifically where upstairs it was.
Paul Zelis: It was over by this chair that I described on top of some books, or some boxes, I should say.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: I need a moment, Your Honor. Your Honor, it's time for a break and we have a minor thing to straighten out. So that would be better than doing it in front of the jury and you.
The Court: All right. Let's take the break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Detective Zelis, I want to direct your attention back to the Exhibit No. 561. Oh, sorry. I want to direct your attention back to the Exhibit 561 for a moment, if we can.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Prior to the recess, you withdrew one book from that brown bag; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: That is correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And the bag actually contained two books.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And we found the second one during the recess.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recognize the second book.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And those are the items that you found in Mr. Jackson's bedroom.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Move that those items be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
Mr. Sanger: Other than objections previously stated, we have no objection.
The Court: All right. Admit them.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. At this point I'm going to hand you an exhibit that's been marked as 286 for identification purposes. Okay.
Mr. Sanger: May I see it, please.
Mr. Sneddon: 286, Your Honor. And it's a chart.
Mr. Sanger: Oh, okay.
Mr. Sneddon: I'll show it to counsel.
Mr. Sanger: Yeah, fine.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize the floor plan depicted in the chart, 286.
Paul Zelis: It appears to be the upper bedroom portion of the two-story suite.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Your Honor, I would purport at this time, like we did before, with the same admonition, that it does not necessarily mean that the numbers as to the dimensions of the room are accurate, but to be used to demonstrate this witness's testimony as to the locations of certain items. And that's what I discussed with counsel before.
Mr. Sanger: I have no objection to that.
The Court: All right. It's admitted on that condition.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, Detective Zelis, if you could, for the ladies and gentlemen of the jury, first of all, could you indicate for them the location -- We're going put the chart up on the board, if we can, Your Honor. And -- You're going to need to mark on this. All right. I want to direct your attention to the Exhibit 256. Now, can you indicate to the ladies and gentlemen of the jury, on this particular exhibit, where it was that you found -- where the nightstand was located and the items that you found there.
Paul Zelis: The nightstand would have been approximately in this area.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. You're indicating to the lower right-hand far wall of the bedroom.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you indicate that on the -- on the exhibit. All right. Would you describe for the record what you put there.
Paul Zelis: I drew a square, and inside the square I put “NS”, for “nightstand”.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, within that nightstand, you found some magazines, correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you found the picture of the Arvizo children.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Would you just put a little, like a line to the nightstand thing, and write those in there. All right. Now, you've indicated to the ladies and gentlemen of the jury you found two books that have now been admitted into evidence as 561. Where did you find those in Mr. Jackson's bedroom.
Paul Zelis: Do you wish me to point --
Mr. Sneddon: Please.
Paul Zelis: There was numerous boxes and cabinets in this general area of this side of the bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: You're indicating to the exhibit, 286, that down towards the left lower wall of the room.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And would you, on the Exhibit 286, please indicate generally where you found the two books that are now in evidence as 561.
Paul Zelis: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And what did you put on the Exhibit 286, the chart.
Paul Zelis: I drew a rectangle with a “B”, for “books”.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury that you found a mannequin in the bedroom that you took.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you have a photograph in front of you, which I believe is 153, which is in evidence.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize the item depicted in that photograph.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what is that.
Paul Zelis: It is the mannequin.
Mr. Sneddon: And can you indicate on the exhibit that's up on the wall there, which is a replica of 286, where you found the mannequin.
Paul Zelis: I first located the mannequin, it was on the floor generally in this area.
Mr. Sneddon: You're indicating, again, towards that far wall, and on this exhibit towards the lower left-hand part of it.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Would you please just put an “M” in the general area of where you found the item depicted in 153, the mannequin.
Paul Zelis: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, on the exhibit chart, 286, you told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury that you found the briefcase that's in evidence, that's 470, in a particular location below that bedroom; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Are you able to show the ladies and gentlemen of the jury the general area on the chart, 286, as to where the entryway to that closet is in relationship to the bedroom.
Paul Zelis: The entry door was on the bottom floor, right next to the staircase, so it would have been in this area here.
Mr. Sneddon: So towards the area on the chart where the stairs are, but just to the right of it; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: That is correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you please indicate on the exhibit chart, 286, just put the number -- or just put “Briefcase” in the general area of where you found the briefcase.
Paul Zelis: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: And I've handed you a photograph that's marked as People's 72, which is in evidence.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize that.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recognize -- what is People's 72; tell the jury.
Paul Zelis: It is a picture, downstairs, of the stairway and several entry doors. One to a closet; one into the actual room where the picture was taken. The stairs are what is depicted in this diagram here.
Mr. Sneddon: Diagram 286.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Could you put your initials on the door that led to the closet where you found the Item 470.
Paul Zelis: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. So we've now put up for the jury to see the photograph, 72, which is in evidence. And I notice it has a dark “P” and a “Z”.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Those are your initials on the door that led to the closet where 470 was found.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, I have a few questions about that, and then we're going to be done. With regard to the Item 470, the black briefcase - okay --.
Paul Zelis: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- prior to the time that you went to the ranch on November 18th, had you participated in an interview with the Arvizo boys, Gavin and Star.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And had they described to you an incident involving Mr. Jackson showing them adult materials.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did they describe to you where -- the container that the adult materials were in.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Why did you take Exhibit 470, the black briefcase.
Mr. Sanger: Objection. State of mind is not relevant.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: When you observed the Item 470, can you tell us whether or not it matched the description of -- the description given by the Arvizo boys.
Paul Zelis: It matched the description exactly.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to that particular Exhibit 470 -- and we can take that one down. And I want to show this one again. That's Exhibit 86, a photograph. With regard to that particular exhibit, did you testify before the grand jury.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did the grand jury request to be able to look at the materials inside of this suitcase.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you the officer who was chosen to be the one to take the briefcase in and show them the materials.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you allow anybody in the grand jury to touch any of those materials.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you, in the course of showing those things to the grand jury, take any precautions so your fingerprints wouldn't show up on those materials.
Paul Zelis: Yes, I wore latex gloves.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you. No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: Mr. Sanger.
Mr. Sanger: Let's -- you don't have to give me all of them. Just give me the one that was just up there. That's fine. Yeah, okay.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Detective Zelis, starting with the item we left off with there, this is Item 315 as it was booked into evidence, right.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: So the entire briefcase, with all of its contents, was booked into evidence as Exhibit 317.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: You testified on direct that you gave it to Detective Padilla, who booked it into the evidence locker or into the evidence system in the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Office; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: And he booked in -- as you gave it to him, he booked in the entire briefcase and the contents, correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And it was numbered Item 317, correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, I believe you said something about forensics on direct examination with regard to this. But I may be wrong. So let me ask you, was it your intention that the contents of this briefcase be evaluated and analyzed by the CSI or forensic unit at the sheriff's department.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did you think anything about that.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: You were wearing gloves when you -- when you seized this item, correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you put it in a plastic bag, correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: You didn't think forensics was ever going to look at this.
Paul Zelis: Well, I'm sure they would.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And you're sure they would for what purpose. Look at that for fingerprints, perhaps.
Paul Zelis: Perhaps.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Do you think that would be pretty much a priority.
Paul Zelis: Possibly.
Mr. Sanger: Possibly. And in 2004, April -- March and April of 2004, in that time period, this briefcase was brought to the grand jury in Santa Barbara; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And it was your understanding it had been to forensics, right, when you brought it in.
Paul Zelis: That I'm not sure of.
Mr. Sanger: You're not sure. By the end of the grand jury proceeding, you came to realize that nobody had checked for fingerprints on these materials inside of Sheriff's Item 317; isn't that correct, sir.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: That was kind of a shocker, wasn't it. It wasn't a shocker.
Paul Zelis: No, not to me.
Mr. Sanger: You're kind of smiling. This -- in fact, when that was learned, that's when you were sent in with gloves for the grand jury to look at the materials, so that they wouldn't be picking it up and handling it; is that right.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: However, during the course of that grand jury, the contents of this, of this briefcase, Sheriff's Item 317, was handed to Gavin Arvizo so he could look through it, see if he could identify it; isn't that correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Objection. No personal knowledge, no foundation.
The Court: I think he's asking him if that happened, so I will overrule the objection.
Paul Zelis: I would not know.
Mr. Sanger: So you weren't advised by the end of the grand jury proceedings that Gavin Arvizo had taken the contents of this and looked through it at the request of the District Attorney.
Mr. Sneddon: Same objection.
Paul Zelis: No.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: After the -- 317. I'm referring to Item 317 for a reason. It is an exhibit here in court with a different number, but Sheriff's Item 317, this whole briefcase, was booked into evidence at the grand jury; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And when you were assisting the grand jurors to look through this material with gloves, it was in evidence, it was in the possession of the Clerk of the Court of the County of Santa Barbara; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And after you assisted the grand jury in looking through this with gloves, it remained -- this Item 317, the briefcase and the contents, remained with the Clerk of the Superior Court; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: To my knowledge, yes.
Mr. Sanger: And during the testimony in the case with regard to Item 317, do you or do you not know -- let me withdraw that and start again. During the course of the grand jury proceedings, do you know how many witnesses were shown the contents of this briefcase, Sheriff's Item 317.
Paul Zelis: How many witnesses.
Mr. Sanger: Yes.
Paul Zelis: I do not know.
Mr. Sanger: And after you completed your assistance to the grand jury by wearing gloves so they could look through this material, do you know whether or not the court clerks wore gloves when they went through and inventoried all this material.
Paul Zelis: I do not know.
Mr. Sanger: Do you know when this item was removed from the grand jury for the purpose of doing a fingerprint analysis.
Paul Zelis: I do not know. I did not remove it.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. But you were the -- one of the lead detectives on this case; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And so in that capacity, it's your job to know pretty much what's going on in the case, isn't it.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And in the course of acting as one of the lead detectives on the case, you came to realize that fingerprints had not been taken until after this briefcase was released from evidence sometime in the summer of -- spring or summer of 2004; is that right.
Paul Zelis: That is my understanding.
Mr. Sanger: Now, you were -- you were a deputy marshal. I just want some factual -- and I don't mean to be rude in anything I'm asking here, but you were a deputy marshal to start with; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And as such, you were employed by the County of Santa Barbara as -- in part, as a bailiff in the Santa Barbara Municipal Court; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And you also served civil papers, like complaints and subpoenas and divorce papers in civil cases; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: You did that for about four years.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then you -- did you go to the sheriff's department when there was a merger of the courts.
Paul Zelis: Yes. We all became sheriff's deputies.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So when the -- when the Municipal Court was done away with and it all became a Superior Court, all the judges became Superior Court judges, the deputy marshals then became deputy sheriffs, if they wished to do that; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you opted to do that; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: How long were you -- let me withdraw that. What was your first assignment when you were a deputy sheriff.
Paul Zelis: My first assignment was patrol.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So you went out in a black-and-white and patrolled the streets and highways of Santa Maria and the environs up here; is that right.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And how long did you do that.
Paul Zelis: A little over four years.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And then you became a detective; is that right.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you have a particular assignment as a detective.
Paul Zelis: I was assigned originally to the Santa Maria station, and then shortly thereafter assigned to the Solvang station.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And you were -- you didn't have a particular detail that you were assigned to. You were assigned as a detective --
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: -- just to generally work in that capacity. You weren't doing narcotics in particular.
Paul Zelis: No. Criminal investigations.
Mr. Sanger: You weren't doing sex crimes in particular.
Paul Zelis: Occasionally.
Mr. Sanger: Occasionally. And occasionally you did narcotics, right.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Occasionally you did just about everything that came through the door, right.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And so at the time that you were assigned, in June of 2003, to work on this case, you had been a detective for about two years.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, again -- and I don't mean this in an offensive fashion, but just -- there were a lot of detectives in the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department who had much more experience than you did in sex crime investigations as of that time; isn't that correct, sir.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
The Court: Is it all right if I turn the light on.
Mr. Sanger: Yes. Yes. Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: Now, I'll work backwards a little bit here through what was said, since it's fresh in our mind. You mentioned that the Arvizo boys -- you had interviewed the Arvizo boys - I think this was the way it was put - and the briefcase matched a description that they had given of a black briefcase, correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct. Except I think they used the word “suitcase”, instead of briefcase.
Mr. Sanger: So you found a black briefcase, and it seemed to be similar to what they were describing as a suitcase; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Do you know whether or not the Arvizo boys went through various rooms in Mr. Jackson's house when Mr. Jackson was not there.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object; lack of personal foundation, personal knowledge. It's clear that he doesn't --
Mr. Sanger: That's a speaking objection
The Court: Sustained. The question is “Do you know”, so I'll allow the question.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
The Court: Do you want it read back.
Paul Zelis: Please.
The Court Reporter: Okay. Do you know whether or not the Arvizo boys went through various rooms in Mr. Jackson's house when Mr. Jackson was not there.
Paul Zelis: I do not know.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. When we're talking about evidence here, you have before you Exhibit 561, which is Sheriff's Item, I think, 365; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And has that been received into evidence, Your Honor.
The Court: 561.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: 561 is a bag that contained eventually two books here; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, sir, are you familiar in your training and experience with what's called “chain of custody”.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Can you hold the bag up, with the Court's permission, so the jury can see it, just in general, and I'm going to ask you some specifics. Hold it still for a second. All right. Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me, Counsel. Can I consult with counsel before he asks the next question, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do I have a say in that.
The Court: Yes. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
The Court: I should have given you permission --
Mr. Sanger: Excuse me one second. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Sanger: Okay. We're all up to date in Kansas City, here. May I proceed.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Detective Zelis, we were talking about chain of custody of evidence, right.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Are you familiar with that.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you held the bag up. Could you hold it up again. And I'm going to ask you to just point out what happens when somebody opens the bag to look at it before you come to court. In other words, it's -- let me start this -- it's a little easier to do it this way: When something's first put in the bag, the bag is sealed, correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Can you show how that bag was first sealed.
Paul Zelis: It would have been sealed at the top, stapled, evidence tape put on it, and then initialed and dated with a marker.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And then when the bag is subsequently opened, what do you do. Do you just rip open the top.
Paul Zelis: No. You try to open it in a different area, and seal it in the same manner when the items are put back.
Mr. Sanger: So you would -- hold that up again, if you would, please. In other words, this is a regular bag, as it were. It now has red tape all over it on the sides. That red tape was not on the sides when the books were first put in there; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: The red tape was then put on each side when the bag was opened for one reason or another.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then it was resealed, new red tape was put on that seam; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, when you came down here, you had one book in the bag; is that correct. Or, I'm sorry, when you say -- when you came down here an hour before, whenever it was, there was one book in the bag, right.
Paul Zelis: I didn't bring the book down.
Mr. Sanger: Were you asked to look at the bag.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And there was one book in it when you first looked at it; is that right.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then at the break, somebody went back up and found another book; is that right.
Paul Zelis: It was still here in the courtroom.
Mr. Sanger: It was sitting here someplace.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. The reason to be cautious about the chain of custody is to make sure you have the right items in the right bag when you come into court; is that right.
Paul Zelis: Absolutely.
Mr. Sanger: Now, for Mr. Sneddon's benefit and the Court, I will point out that we agreed that the bags could be opened so the items could be marked for court. That would be the last time. In other words, the last opening. We agreed that could be done without doing it right on the record.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, it was more than that. That they --
Mr. Sanger: If there's going to be an argument, Your Honor, I'd ask we be heard elsewhere.
The Court: Proceed.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
The Court: That's a good argument. I'll ask you to have the arguments elsewhere. I didn't realize how good that was.
Mr. Sanger: Another county, maybe. (Laughter.)
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, let's talk about the contents of that bag. And may I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'd like to retrieve the contents of the bag. Let's have the bag and the contents. And I'll let you hand it to me. You don't have to put it in. Put it on top. And I'm going take this back, if I may.
Mr. Sanger: All right. The first book that you -- that was in this bag, the one that was there when you first looked at it - and the bag I'm referring to is Exhibit 561 - the first book is by Robert Maxwell; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: I believe so.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Do you know whether or not Robert Maxwell is a personal friend of the Jackson family.
Paul Zelis: No, I do not know that.
Mr. Sanger: Now, you were at the initial walk-through of the search of the residence of Mr. Jackson; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: When -- in fact, I believe you were in the very first car that drove up to the front door; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And you were with -- for the most part, you were with Sergeant Robel during the initial walk-through; correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Lieutenant Klapakis was there as well.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Mr. Sneddon showed up in the foyer at some point during the walk-through; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: I believe so, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Yeah. And when you walked through, you walked through the whole main house; is that right.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then did you also walk through the other areas, such as the office area, the security office. The video library, did you walk through that building.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did you walk through the arcade building.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So talking just about the main residence that you walked through, the main residence, did you observe a number of books in the main residence.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Is it safe to say that there were probably thousands of books in the main residence.
Paul Zelis: I don't know about thousands. Maybe hundreds.
Mr. Sanger: Hundreds. Okay. And in Mr. Jackson's, what you called his suite, the first floor, there were stacks of books in front of the big screen T.V.; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: To the side of a big screen T.V., yes.
Mr. Sanger: Along that wall.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And then there was also a bookcase with books right next to that door that you showed us; that you showed us the inside of the door, but just outside of that door where the stairway is, that was a bookcase.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: With a lot of books there.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: There were also all sorts of books and magazines piled up in the upstairs bedroom part; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Just stacks of books here and there and all over the place, right.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: In addition to that, there were -- in the main house that you went through, including Mr. Jackson's suite, there were a number of items that appeared to have been sent by fans. Would you say that's correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And there were a number of items that seemed to have been given to Mr. Jackson or sent to Mr. Jackson by other celebrities; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: I don't have personal knowledge of that.
Mr. Sanger: Well, did you see a letter sitting on the piano from Steven Spielberg, for instance.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did you see any cards from Liza Minnelli.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: Are you aware that any of those -- that Liza Minnelli card was seized.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: So it was somewhere. You just didn't see it while it was sitting there.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Did you see items that were original items signed by Walt Disney, for instance.
Paul Zelis: I didn't see that.
Mr. Sanger: You didn't see that in the same closet that you were retrieving the black briefcase from.
Paul Zelis: There may have been some frames on the wall. I don't know who signed them.
Mr. Sanger: And there were a lot of -- there was a lot of memorabilia from other movie stars, including Shirley Temple, and a number of other movies; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes. Memorabilia.
Mr. Sanger: Memorabilia. And it appeared that Mr. Jackson had saved -- in stacks or piles or bookcases or on the floor, all over his private quarters, he had saved a tremendous number of things that had been sent to him by other people, right.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So you don't know where the Maxwell book came from, do you. You just found it.
Paul Zelis: I know it came from his bedroom.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And of all the materials that you observed, there were no materials of an adult nature or sexually explicit nature, there were no materials that were, in and of themselves, illegal to possess, were there.
Paul Zelis: Not that I recall, no.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And the magazines that you picked out -- I won't put them back up unless you want me to. But the magazines that you picked out and you pulled out of the drawer to photograph on the bed, for instance, those are commercially available magazines. You could go to a store and buy them, right.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Can we have the screen again, please, Your Honor. And still up there is No. 86.
Mr. Sanger: Did you determine the date of the top magazine, the “Barely Legal”.
Paul Zelis: I did not.
Mr. Sanger: Were you aware that it is dated after the time that the Arvizos were at the ranch.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: And that hasn't come to your attention.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. You don't know -- of the materials you seized, you don't know when they were actually placed or stored or put wherever you located them. In other words, you don't know when they came to be there. You just know they were there on November 18th, 2003; is that right.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: So you don't know what, of those items, was there, if any, in February or March of 2003, correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: You also indicated that you found Exhibit -- You can turn off the thing, Your Honor. Thank you. I think it's Exhibit 338. You found a picture that appeared to be of the Arvizo children, correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And it appears to be a picture -- well, maybe I could put it up, Your Honor, if I may. It appears to be a picture that was taken of the children and probably given to Mr. Jackson, correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: It doesn't look like a candid snapshot. It looks like some kind of a commercially prepared picture; is that right.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. When you looked through the house, just the main house that you looked through, Mr. Jackson had a tremendous number of photographs of adults, children, people of all sorts all over his house, did he not.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And it appeared that quite a number of those photographs were, in fact, sent to him by fans or people who were sending him photographs. They weren't snapshots taken by Mr. Jackson; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I want to ask you about the mannequin and the -- well, it's not here. Do you have the photograph of the mannequin.
Paul Zelis: Here it is.
Mr. Sanger: Oh. It's up there.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Paul Zelis: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sanger: What else do you have there. Let me see, so I don't make too many trips. Now, 153 I believe is in evidence; is that correct, Your Honor. In any event, I'd like to publish it. I believe it is.
The Court: Yes. 153's in evidence. You may show it.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: When you look at 153 - and you have to wait a second - it appears to be a -- a mannequin of a child, you said, right.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you know if that is a mannequin that represents some member of Mr. Jackson's family.
Paul Zelis: I don't know.
Mr. Sanger: Were you aware that someone had defaced this mannequin.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And did you examine the mannequin to see the portion that was, in fact, defaced.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I'd like to have I think it's 5033. This was marked for identification previously with another witness, Your Honor.
The Court: It was.
Mr. Sanger: I'd like to approach the witness, if I may.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: Let me show you 5033, and ask you -- let me -- let me go back here to ask you a question, if I may. Showing you 5033, does that appear to be the portion of the mannequin that was defaced.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Basically -- and let me ask, is that -- does that appear to be an accurate depiction of the actual subject matter.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, I'd move 5033 into evidence.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Sanger: May I approach to retrieve it.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, does it appear that somebody defaced this with a marking pen of some sort.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Your Honor, I'd like to publish this, if I may.
The Court: You may.
Mr. Sanger: Standing -- and I'm going to turn it first so you can see the evidence -- exhibit tag, and then I'll show this here. So it looked like somebody had drawn in -- drawn this in on this particular doll; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: It appears that way, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you find out who did that.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: You interviewed the Arvizos a number of times, the Arvizo children, Star, Davellin and Gavin, correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Did you ever ask them if they did this.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: Excuse me one second. Did you ever have occasion to go up to the -- Your Honor, if you wanted to hit the light, that would be okay. Thank you. Did you ever have occasion to go up to the administrative office for the ranch.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And the administrative office of the ranch is up on the hill -- well, there are a lot of hills there. But anyway, let's try it this way. The administrative office for the ranch is not in the residential complex we just described down below; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: It's up on a hill, right.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And it's a working office, correct.
Paul Zelis: Appears that way, yes.
Mr. Sanger: There's secretaries or assistants -- there's a couple of executive offices of some sort.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. It's actually a metal building, something you'd see on a ranch, I suppose; is that right.
Paul Zelis: I didn't take notice.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And there's actually a fire department there. There's a bay with a fire truck there.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, in the administrative office, when you're up there, did you have occasion to see -- on November 18, to see the pile of materials that had been sent by fans within the last five to seven days.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object. It assumes facts not in evidence and lack of foundation as to the date.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: I'm talking about November 18, 2003, the -- is that when you were at the administrative office.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: Oh, I see. When were you at the administrative office.
Paul Zelis: The last search warrant, which was in December of '04.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. All right. That's fine. You were part of the group that came to Mr. Jackson's house early in the morning on December - what was it - 3rd of 2004; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: I'm not specifically sure on the date. But it was December of '04, yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. It was a Friday, was it not.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And what time did you arrive.
Paul Zelis: I believe it was around nine o'clock, maybe ten o'clock in the morning.
Mr. Sanger: Did you arrive at the first -- with the first car on that occasion.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And Mr. Jackson and his children were in residence there, in their house at that hour.
Paul Zelis: That was my understanding.
Mr. Sanger: Nobody called ahead to say, “We'd like to come out to your ranch and look at things”.
Paul Zelis: Not to my knowledge.
Mr. Sanger: And how many people showed up that day from law enforcement, or associated with your search.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as beyond the scope of direct examination and relevance.
The Court: Are you saying that none of the seizures that he was testifying to on direct occurred on December 4th.
Mr. Sneddon: That's correct, Your Honor. And I didn't ask any questions about December.
Mr. Sanger: The question was the materials received from fans. And this is evidently when he saw them.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, no.
The Court: The question you asked was, “How many people showed up on that search”. I'll sustain the objection.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: At some point, you went from the house area up to the administrative building; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: In 2004.
Mr. Sanger: December of 2004, the Friday, which --
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: -- could be the 3rd. Okay. And when you went up to the administrative office, did you search the administrative office.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did somebody search it.
Paul Zelis: I don't believe so.
Mr. Sanger: Were you given something from the office voluntarily.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: When you were up there and you went through the office, did you see a large pile of materials, of things, sent to Mr. Jackson from all over the world.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Let me -- If I may, Your Honor, I'd like to show that Exhibit 72, which shows the door to the closet.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sanger: And that's been received.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. You indicated that that was the stairway that goes up to Mr. Jackson's upper bedroom area, correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And what we're talking about, this is the door to his downstairs area; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And just to the left of that, there are bookcases; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And to the right of that, along the outside of that wall, there were piles of books; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And around the piano, behind the piano, there are bookcases. The piano's on the other side of the wall in that room; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: I'm not sure if there was a bookcase.
Mr. Sanger: And there were books piled up around and near the piano; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: I don't know.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And besides books, there were magazines, reading material of all sorts all over the place, right.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, where you -- where you put your initials there on the door, that is a long, walk-in kind of closet, correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And there were quite a number of items stored specifically in that closet; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Appeared so, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Again, memorabilia, photographs, boxes, all sorts of things, right.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And there was also clothing in there, correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, what I want to do is go to a question that Mr. Zonen -- Mr. Sneddon had asked you if you did these interviews. And, Your Honor, we can turn the light on, if you want. And, in fact, there were interviews which were done of the Arvizo children on 7-7-03, July 7, '03, correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you participated in that interview; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: You interviewed Davellin, Star and Gavin on that day; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And that's tape-recorded.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you have transcripts of the tape, correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then there were follow-up interviews on 8-13-03. You participated in those; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And again, you interviewed all three of the children at that time; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: You then had the search, which was November 18 of '03, correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then there was some brief interviews on November 26, '03; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: I don't -- I don't remember that date specifically.
Mr. Sanger: Well, do you remember a date in November. Was it the day of the month or you don't remember doing it at all. Did I say 26th or 25th. In any event, November 25th.
Paul Zelis: Of 2003.
Mr. Sanger: Of 2003.
Paul Zelis: Interview with the children.
Mr. Sanger: With Gavin and with Star that were tape-recorded and transcripts made.
Paul Zelis: I'm not sure.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Would it help if I showed you a transcript to see if that refreshes your recollection.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Take a look at that. My question was, were you there. I'm showing you a transcript of an interview. And I believe Detective Robel indicated he was there, if that helps you.
Paul Zelis: I don't recall this interview.
Mr. Sanger: Were you advised of that interview at all by Detective Robel.
Paul Zelis: I would have to read it further.
Mr. Sanger: Take your time.
Paul Zelis: He may have briefed me on the interview. I don't think he got into detail.
Mr. Sanger: All right. In any event, so what you're saying, you may or may not have known that there was an interview. You think you probably were told.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you don't think you were there.
Paul Zelis: I don't believe so.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. The next interview was January the 19th, 2004; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you were at that one.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And who was at that interview.
Paul Zelis: Deputy District Attorney Ron Zonen. I believe District Attorney Tom Sneddon.
Mr. Sanger: And who else.
Paul Zelis: Lieutenant Jeff Klapakis. Sergeant Robel. The Arvizo children.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did Sergeant Robel stay for the entire interview.
Paul Zelis: I do not believe so.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Did you stay for the entire interview.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. May I retrieve my book, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: Now, at the time of this interview, let's say before January 19th, had you ever seen the rebuttal video.
Paul Zelis: I don't believe so.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And this interview process started with a showing to the Arvizo children of the rebuttal video; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And before it was shown to them, they were -- let me withdraw that. Before the rebuttal film was shown to them, the Arvizo children were told what they were about to see; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And after the film was shown to them, they were then interviewed on tape; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And Mr. Sneddon actively participated in the interview; is that right.
Paul Zelis: I do not believe so.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. We'll come back to that. I want to direct your attention to Davellin's interview first, if I may. And in Davellin's interview, she was asked, in general, how they could have responded the way they did in this rebuttal film based on the allegations that they were making, correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And specifically Davellin was asked about the hand-holding. Remember that.
Paul Zelis: Vaguely, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you remember the scene in the rebuttal video where Janet Arvizo doesn't appear to know that she's even on film and she says, “Hey, hey, get this, get this. Get us holding hands just like Bashir”, and everybody kind of joins in as to what a good idea it is. Do you remember that.
Paul Zelis: Vaguely.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And do you recall asking her -- did anybody ever talk to you or talk to Gavin and your mother that they should hold hands together, “Gavin and your mother during this”, and then it's unintelligible. Remember that question.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And Davellin says, “Oh, yeah, they -- because they -- they wanted to -- because the fact that they did the Bashir thing, they wanted my mom to do it so it could erase what they saw of Michael”. Remember that.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And later, as she was asked, she was asked about the part of the video where they are calling Michael Jackson “daddy” and talking about him as “daddy” and his family. Do you remember that.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And her explanation for that was that Frank and Dieter told them to do that; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Mainly Dieter is my recollection.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Primarily Dieter. But you remember her talking about Frank as well, “Frank told us”, and “Dieter told us” at one point, too.
Paul Zelis: I recall mainly she mentioned Dieter.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, did you interview the kids independently, or were they all sitting there together.
Paul Zelis: Independently.
Mr. Sanger: They were all sitting there together to watch the film, though, correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you didn't record what they said during the film while the film was being played for them, did you.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object. Assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Did they say anything while the film was being played.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: Nothing at all.
Paul Zelis: They were instructed not to talk to each other.
Mr. Sanger: All right. On the -- when you talked to Gavin -- let me withdraw that for a second. Before they saw the film, they -- the Arvizo children, Gavin and Star in particular, had been confronted before that -- before they saw the film, they had been confronted by law enforcement as to the fact that there was a film in which they appeared to be very happy with Michael Jackson, correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to the use of --
Mr. Sanger: I'll withdraw it. We won't say “confronted”. We'll say they were advised. They were asked.
Paul Zelis: I'm sorry, could you repeat the question.
Mr. Sanger: The Arvizo children, particularly Gavin and Star, were asked about the rebuttal film before they saw it.
Paul Zelis: I'm not sure.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And when you just briefly reviewed the Gavin transcript there from 11-25-03, was there any question asked about a rebuttal video at that time.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to the question. He said he doesn't believe he was present.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Were you advised that -- before they saw the video on -- you're the detective, one of the lead detectives in this case, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. When you're sitting there on January 19th, 2004, with Mr. Sneddon, Mr. Zonen and the other people, including your lieutenant and your sergeant, you are concerned about what these kids are going to say about this video, correct. You want to know what they have to say.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Object. That's compound.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Move to strike the answer.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Sanger: You wanted to know what they had to say about the video, right.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And so as the investigator, one of the lead investigators at that time, you were aware that the fact that the video had been discussed with at least Gavin and Star -- I'm not talking about Janet Arvizo. That's another subject. But as to the children, it's been discussed with at least Gavin and Star the fact that there was a video where they portrayed themselves of being very supportive of Michael Jackson. That was discussed with them before --
The Court: This question is just going on and on.
Mr. Sneddon: Move to strike.
The Court: Start over.
Mr. Sanger: Let me start over, okay.
Mr. Sanger: Did you discuss -- let me withdraw that. Were you aware that the Arvizo children had discussed with law enforcement the fact that there was a rebuttal video before they showed up on the 19th to watch it.
Paul Zelis: I don't believe I was aware.
Mr. Sanger: So you thought this was just cold, outside the box; nobody had ever talked to them about it.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, that's argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: When you say you weren't aware, was it your belief at that time when they sat down that they weren't even aware you had a rebuttal video.
Paul Zelis: I don't know what they were aware of and what they were not aware of.
Mr. Sanger: Well, as an investigator, the state of mind of the subject that you're interviewing is important, is it not.
Mr. Sneddon: Object; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled.
Paul Zelis: Maybe I should clarify that.
The Court: No, you should just answer the question. Do you want the question read back.
Paul Zelis: Please.
The Court Reporter: Well, as an investigator, the state of mind of the subject that you're interviewing is important, is it not.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, when Gavin was asked about the video, after he saw the rebuttal video on January 19, 2004, he said that Dieter had told them what to say; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And he also said that 99.9 percent of what was shown on the rebuttal video was not true -- or let me rephrase that. 99.9 percent of what was said on the rebuttal video was not true; isn't that correct.
Paul Zelis: That is not correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. You don't have a copy of this with you, do you.
Paul Zelis: I may have.
Mr. Sanger: I think you attached it to one of your police reports. If it's not handy, I'll show you mine.
Paul Zelis: It may take me some time to find it. If you have it handy, that would be more efficient.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I think it was -- let me -- I'll just show you mine. May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'm showing you page 12. And you're welcome to read before and after, whatever you want to do, but I'm kind of directing your attention there to the middle of that page. I'd like you to read that. And then after you're through, tell me if that refreshes your recollection as to what Gavin said.
Paul Zelis: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And that refreshes your recollection.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And he said, “Like 99 percent of the things weren't true”; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: That Dieter, or “they”, were telling them what to say on the rebuttal video. Not what was said on the rebuttal video. What they were told to say.
Mr. Sanger: And what they were told to say was the same they said they were saying. They were claiming it was the same thing that they said, was it not.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as argumentative.
The Court: Do you understand the question.
Paul Zelis: Well, I don't know the exact specifics of what Dieter told them to say prior.
Mr. Sanger: The question -- you'd be asking questions about the calling Michael “daddy” and saying they were members of his family, and they were -- all of those things were the subject matter of what you were asking about, correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And he said Dieter told him to say it, right.
Paul Zelis: Of the things to say, yes.
Mr. Sanger: And he said 99.9 percent of that wasn't true, right.
Paul Zelis: Yes, he does say that, to what Dieter told him to say.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Never told you Dieter told him to say anything that he didn't say, did he. He didn't say, “Dieter told me the moon's made out of blue cheese, but I wouldn't say it”.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, on another issue in this same interview -- well, let's set the stage by going back to the 7th of July interview. And let me ask you in general. During the -- during the three interviews that you had conducted -- and there was a fourth one, the 11-25-03, but you don't know about that other than what you've seen, so I'll exclude that. Of the three interviews, July, August and January, was Gavin consistent as to when he claimed the acts of molest that he was alleging had occurred.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: In July, he said, “It was one of the last days that I was staying at Neverland”, correct.
Paul Zelis: Something to that effect. I believe so, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And in August, he was not clear as to whether it was before or after the DCFS interview, correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm -- I'm going to object, Your Honor. That --
The Court: Sustained. It's a conclusion. Calls for a conclusion.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Mr. Sanger: Let's just go to the January 19th, 2004 -- okay. In January of 2004, did he tell you that he was sure as to the dates when the molest occurred, the alleged molests.
Paul Zelis: That he was sure.
Mr. Sanger: Yes.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: And at that time, he said he didn't know whether it was before or after DCSF, but that, “You guys would know”. Remember him saying that.
Paul Zelis: That's not what he said.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. What did he say.
Paul Zelis: He was asked -- and this is my recollection. He was asked of when the molestations occurred, and if they could have been prior, or if they were prior or after the DCFS interview. And he said, “I think so”, period. That's my recollection.
Mr. Sanger: He thought so, that they were prior to it, before it.
Paul Zelis: I think so.
Mr. Sanger: He said, “I think so”. And then he said, “You guys would know”, right.
Paul Zelis: No. He said we would know to when the DCFS interview occurred.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So you're interpreting that as, “You would know when DCFS occurred”.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: He didn't say, “You guys would know when the DCFS interview occurred”.
Paul Zelis: He indicated that we would know when the DCFS interview occurred.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So he said he thought it could be prior, could be before.
Paul Zelis: The molestations occurred.
Mr. Sanger: Yes.
Paul Zelis: He said he thought so.
Mr. Sanger: He thought so.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And then you also interviewed Star on that same occasion, on January 19th; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And once again, Star's answer, after he saw the video, was that Dieter told him to use terms such as “father” and “humble”; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And at that time you didn't ask him about using those terms before he ever met Dieter, did you.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: At that time were you aware that Star and the rest of the family had sent cards to Michael Jackson in 2001 calling him “father”, talking about him being part of their family, using all those same terms that are on the video.
Paul Zelis: Can you repeat the question.
Mr. Sanger: Could we have that read back.
The Court: All right.
The Court Reporter: At that time were you aware that Star and the rest of the family had sent cards to Michael Jackson in 2001 calling him “father”, talking about him being part of their family, using all those same terms that are on the video.
Paul Zelis: I know cards were sent. I do not know the dates of when those cards were sent.
Mr. Sanger: Did you ask him about those cards.
Paul Zelis: Personally, I don't think so.
Mr. Sanger: So you didn't say, “Well, Dieter told you to say this, but you also said this in the cards”. You didn't ask him about that subject matter.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: Were you aware that the family used that same language in dealing with other people such as Louise Palanker.
Mr. Sneddon: Can I object as to vague as to the “same language”. Because there's a number of different terms.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. “Mommy” instead of “daddy”.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Were you aware that they were calling Louise Palanker “mommy” and saying they were part of her family --
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: -- using the same kind of language. Did you recently learn that.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: Are you still on this case.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Let me have just one second, Your Honor. Let me go one more time to the interview on January the 19th. And do you remember Mr. Sneddon actually asking questions in that interview, or making comments in that interview.
Paul Zelis: Which interview. Of which interview.
Mr. Sanger: Of Gavin. Yes, of Gavin.
Paul Zelis: I --
Mr. Sanger: January 19th, 2004, interview of Gavin. Sorry.
Paul Zelis: I do not recall.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Do you recall whether or not Mr. Sneddon expressed concern in the presence of Gavin, the complaining witness in this case, about why he made these kinds of remarks on the rebuttal video.
Paul Zelis: I do not recall.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall whether or not Gavin responded to Mr. Sneddon, to Mr. Sneddon's remarks.
Paul Zelis: I do not know.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What page are you talking about, Counsel.
Mr. Sanger: 13.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to show you page 13, but you can read the whole thing if you want. Do whatever you want. I'm going to ask you if it refreshes your recollection about the exchange between Mr. Sneddon and Gavin Arvizo.
Paul Zelis: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: May I retrieve the book, Your Honor.
Mr. Sanger: Does that refresh your recollection.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Before I ask you about what was said, let me put this in context. As an investigator, when you're interviewing a witness, you're supposed to get information. You're not supposed to convey to the witness what you would like them to say, correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall now, having refreshed your recollection, that Mr. Sneddon said, “So, in your mind, one of the things that you're thinking is, they're doing this video that they want you guys to do, that if you ever told them the truth about being molested by him, that nobody would believe you”. Remember that question.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then Gavin Arvizo says, “Yeah, that they would use that and say that we're lying. That's what I think they used it for. I think that's why they told us to say all those things in the tape. They told us it was for -- they told us it was for so they could release the tape out to the media for rebuttal for what they were all saying, but I don't think -- they were, like, kind of forcing us to say those things. 99.9 percent of the things they were telling us to say weren't even true”. So -- and then the answer ends. Was that what Mr. Sneddon said and what Gavin Arvizo said in response.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And at that point in the interview, as the investigator in the case, it was your understanding that what Gavin Arvizo was saying at that point is that he was claiming he was molested before the rebuttal, and that this was to -- the rebuttal was to cover up a molest; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: Well, that's what Mr. Sneddon was asking, wasn't it. “If you ever told the truth about being molested by him, that nobody would believe you”.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, that calls for a conclusion on the part of the witness. It's --
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Excuse me one second.
Mr. Sanger: You may need to look at this again, so I'll let you do that if you need to. But just so we're clear on that -- and Mr. Mesereau was kind enough to direct me on this. Just so you're clear on this, just preceding this exchange with Mr. Sneddon, the question was asked, “The acts of molestation, had they already begun by the time you did this video”.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object to this as asked and answered. He's just reading. There's no question pending.
The Court: No, I'm going to allow him to read that. I assume it's the preface to a question.
Mr. Sanger: Right.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Sanger: And I think you did refer to this, but to put it in context, the question: “The acts of molestation, had they already begun by the time did you this video; do you know. “A. I think so”. And then: “Q. Within hours after doing the video was that meeting with the workers from the Child Protective Services. Is that how you remembered it, or you're not certain. “A. I don't know. I'm not sure it happened -- whether it happened before or after. You guys probably would know that date”. That's what I had asked you about before. Is that all accurate.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then immediately following that, Mr. Sneddon says, “So, in your mind, one of the things you're thinking is, they've done this video that they want you guys to do so that if you ever told them the truth about being molested by him, that nobody would believe you”, correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then Gavin Arvizo essentially adopts Mr. Sneddon's interpretation.
Paul Zelis: It was -- that question asked by Mr. Sneddon was a clarification of an idea that was given to us by Gavin prior to that.
Mr. Sanger: So that he was molested before the video, and the video was done in order to negate any claim that he was molested.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: And you understand that other times, Gavin Arvizo has claimed that the molest occurred at the end of his stay at Neverland, not in early February or mid-February, correct.
Paul Zelis: Are you asking my understanding. I'm sorry, could you repeat the question.
Mr. Sanger: Well, let me clarify it, if I may. Other times, you told us July 7th, he said it was right at the end of his stay. That would have been March, correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you don't know what he testified to here in court.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: You weren't here. All right. Now, let me go back to the beginning of your involvement in this case. You said you started in June, June the 13th of 2003, correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: When you took over this case, it already had a case number; is that right.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, case numbers are assigned in the sheriff's department for each new case, correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: In other words, just because a person was involved in a case doesn't mean that person will have the same number, either as a suspect or reporting party or anything else, correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: A case number is assigned when a case is open, when an investigation is open on a particular subject matter, right.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And it's your understanding that Terry Flaa, Detective Terry Flaa, had been assigned to go investigate this case when it was first opened, correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Terry Flaa at that time, in fact, was the lead investigator on the case; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: I believe so, yes.
Mr. Sanger: You -- he -- let me withdraw that. He filed a report saying that there was no criminal activity; is that right.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And that report was filed on April the 16th of 2003, correct.
Paul Zelis: I'm not sure of the date.
Mr. Sanger: It was filed sometime before you got involved in the case, right.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And then June 13th you requested his police reports and files; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you ever talk to Detective Flaa.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: When did you talk to him. Well, did you ever talk to him about this case.
Paul Zelis: I don't believe so.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So you took over the case and requested his reports, but you never talked to him about the case.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then about a month after you got involved in the case, Sergeant Robel was brought in; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: No. He was brought in right away.
Mr. Sanger: “Right away”, meaning what. The 13th, 14th of June, or sometime later.
Paul Zelis: I don't know. You'd have to ask him. I don't remember.
Mr. Sanger: Well, we did. But do you recall.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. When you were first assigned to the case, you were the lead investigator in the case; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And eventually when Sergeant Robel was brought in, he was then designated as the lead investigator.
Paul Zelis: Co-lead.
Mr. Sanger: So you and he were co-lead investigators.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
The Court: All right. Let's take our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Sanger: Are we to assume that somebody brought food for the Court. Just a joke.
The Court: The people in the back of the room didn't hear your joke.
Mr. Sanger: Ahh. Having risked my life once on that joke, I think I'll let it go, if that's all right with the Court.
A Voice From The Audience: Ahh.
Mr. Sanger: All right. May I proceed, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So before the break, just to pick up where we left off, you indicated you were appointed as an investigator on this case June the 13th of 2003, correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then Sergeant Robel, sometime after that, came in as co-lead investigator, correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you told us you did not call Terry Flaa to gain the benefit of what he had done on the case; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: I did say that before the break. But I thought about it, and I believe I may have spoken with him.
Mr. Sanger: You may have. Do you know if Sergeant Robel spoke to him.
Paul Zelis: I don't know.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And Detective Flaa was still working for your department in June of 2003, correct.
Paul Zelis: I'm not sure.
Mr. Sanger: And he had -- and again, I don't mean any offense, but he had considerably more experience as a detective than you had at that point; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes. He'd been in the division a lot longer than I had.
Mr. Sanger: And he also had quite a bit of specialized training in sexual offense cases; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: That's my -- that's what I believe, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And he eventually, by the end of the year or so, he left the sheriff's department, correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then he went to work at the Santa Maria Police Department; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. During that year, or I'm sorry, half a year while he was still at the department, did you and Sergeant Robel consult with him on this case.
Paul Zelis: Together, do you mean.
Mr. Sanger: Independently or together.
Paul Zelis: I can't speak for Sergeant Robel, but I believe I may have talked with him, yes.
Mr. Sanger: You may have talked with him. Do you recall consulting with him on this case.
Paul Zelis: Not specifically, but I may have.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And he found that there was no criminal activity, right.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And he was pretty much out of the picture after that; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. No further questions.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Detective Zelis, I actually have just one question. And I want to direct your attention back to Mr. Sanger's examination about Gavin's response to my question on the day that you were interviewing him. Do you recall that.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall, that report in front of you, is that with the one you took a long time to find.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. At the time -- let me ask you a question. If you don't remember the answer, I'll allow you to look at it and you can refresh your recollection. Mr. Sanger didn't finish reading the rest of the questions and answers, but at the time that Gavin made that statement, was he talking about something that he believed at the time that the rebuttal was made or something that he was reflecting back on.
Mr. Sanger: Objection; calls for speculation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Based -- based on Gavin's statement during that conversation, was he indicating that that was his current belief as to what happened or that was his state of mind at the time that the rebuttal film was made.
Mr. Sanger: I still object. That calls for speculation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Judge --
The Court: You can have him state what he said, not what his conclusion is.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I was trying to do it -- all right. I'll do that.
Mr. Sneddon: Question by me: “Did you think that at the time, or that that's what you think now, now that you see it. “A. No. That's what I think now, when I see it, everything”. Was that his statement to you at that time --
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- in relationship to the question Mr. Sanger had brought to your attention that I asked him earlier.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: That was the question and answer that preceded the entire conversation.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Nothing further.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: All right. Just so we're clear, because we had the words “preceded” and so on there, what Mr. Sneddon just read to you, you were following in the transcript; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Not at the same time, no.
Mr. Sanger: Oh, okay. Then during the break he reviewed this with you; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did you see this during the break.
Paul Zelis: You let me read it.
Mr. Sanger: Pardon.
Paul Zelis: I believe you let me read it.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Okay. So maybe I didn't ask that question correctly. Mr. Sneddon, during the break, let you read that part of the transcript.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: What are you talking about. You said he let you read it.
Paul Zelis: No, I said, “You let me read it”.
Mr. Sanger: Oh, okay. I didn't let you read it during the break.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: But if you'd asked, I probably would have, but -- all right. During the break, did you discuss that with Mr. Sneddon at all.
Paul Zelis: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So he got up there and he asked you about these comments preceding the comments that he made; is that right.
Paul Zelis: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: These comments did not precede the comments that Mr. Sneddon made, did they. May I approach the witness.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to show you the transcript.
Mr. Sneddon: That's what I was trying to do.
Mr. Sanger: What Mr. Sneddon just read to you came after the exchange between Mr. Sneddon and Gavin; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: May I --
Mr. Sanger: You can look at whatever you want to look at in there.
Paul Zelis: It is after the question by Mr. Sneddon to Gavin.
Mr. Sanger: And after Gavin gave his explanation about, “Yeah, that's what they were doing, and it was 99.9 percent of it was not true”. Right.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then what Mr. Sneddon read followed that; is that correct.
Paul Zelis: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I have no further questions. May I approach to retrieve my book.
Mr. Sneddon: No questions, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes. All right. You may step down. Call your next witness.
Mr. Sneddon: Detective Alvarez.
The Court: All right. When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing. Face the clerk and raise your right hand.
Message: VICTOR M. ALVAREZ Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Victor Alvarez: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Victor Alvarez: My name is Victor M. Alvarez. A-l-v-a-r-e-z.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Detective Alvarez, you're a deputy sheriff.
Victor Alvarez: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: How long have you been a deputy sheriff.
Victor Alvarez: About 25 and a half years.
Mr. Sneddon: And you're a detective now, correct.
Victor Alvarez: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: How long have you been a detective.
Victor Alvarez: Five and a half years.
Mr. Sneddon: And did -- some point in time, did you get assigned to work as one of the detectives on the investigation into the child molestation charges against the defendant in this case, Mr. Jackson.
Victor Alvarez: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall when it was that you were assigned.
Victor Alvarez: I think it was approximately one week before the initial search warrant.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember what month and year that would have been, then.
Victor Alvarez: It would have been November of 2003.
Mr. Sneddon: During the course of your time as a detective on this particular case, were you asked to obtain some rolled fingerprint impressions from the Arvizo boys.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember when you did that. Just generally the month and the year.
Victor Alvarez: I would imagine it was three or four months ago.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let me show you an exhibit. It might help. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Sneddon: I've handed you an exhibit marked 287 for identification purposes. Do you recognize that exhibit.
Victor Alvarez: I do.
Mr. Sneddon: When and where was the first time you saw that exhibit.
Victor Alvarez: When I sealed it, and when I rolled these fingerprints.
Mr. Sneddon: And you were the one responsible for rolling those prints.
Victor Alvarez: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Where were you when you rolled them.
Victor Alvarez: At the Arvizo home.
Mr. Sneddon: And the prints contained in that exhibit are the prints of both boys.
Victor Alvarez: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And then you sealed and booked it into evidence.
Victor Alvarez: I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I move that be admitted into evidence, People's 287.
Mr. Sanger: No objection.
The Court: All right. It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's go back a little bit in time to prior, at the time that you were assigned to the case. Were you involved in the execution of the search warrant on November the 18th of 2003 at Neverland Valley Ranch.
Victor Alvarez: Not -- I was assigned to do an interview prior to going to the ranch.
Mr. Sneddon: And did somebody go with you to that interview.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who was that.
Victor Alvarez: Detective Bonner.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did the interview take place.
Victor Alvarez: At the Santa Maria Sheriff's Department Substation.
Mr. Sneddon: And who did you meet there.
Victor Alvarez: Jesus Salas.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you videotape that conversation.
Victor Alvarez: We did.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you speak Spanish.
Victor Alvarez: I do.
Mr. Sneddon: Mr. Salas speaks Spanish.
Victor Alvarez: He speaks English pretty good. But if there was a word that he didn't understand or was stuck on a word, I translated for him.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, after you completed your conversation with Mr. Salas on the 18th -- by the way, we didn't establish everything, but what time was it when you made contact with Mr. Salas.
Victor Alvarez: We called Mr. Salas, or we were to meet with Mr. Salas, it was a prearranged meeting, at 7:00 in the morning.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Mr. Salas know what the purpose of the meeting was.
Victor Alvarez: No.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you meet him at 7:00.
Victor Alvarez: If it wasn't at 7:00, it was very close to 7:00, shortly thereafter.
Mr. Sneddon: After you finished your conversation with Mr. Salas, what did you do.
Victor Alvarez: We left the Santa Maria substation and went to Neverland Ranch.
Mr. Sneddon: When you say “we”, who was with you.
Victor Alvarez: Detective Bonner.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember about what time it was when you got to the ranch.
Victor Alvarez: Close to ten o'clock.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you arrived at the ranch, were you assigned any particular responsibilities at that time.
Victor Alvarez: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sneddon: What responsibilities were you assigned.
Victor Alvarez: To help with the interview of the Neverland employees.
Mr. Sneddon: And after you completed that, were you given any other assignments.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what assignments were those.
Victor Alvarez: To search -- to help continue the search of Mr. Jackson's master bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall approximately what time it was when you became involved in those activities.
Victor Alvarez: I'd say about 11:00 or 11:30 in the morning.
Mr. Sneddon: During the course of the time that you were there, did you seize some items that were eventually booked into evidence.
Victor Alvarez: I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember the first thing that you found.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what was that.
Victor Alvarez: They were some books containing adult material that were located near the bathtub in the master bedroom -- or master bathroom.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Anything else that you found that day that you eventually seized.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What else.
Victor Alvarez: A black computer bag that would be for a laptop, the name was Targus, T-a-r-g-u-s, that contained adult videos and adult magazines.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was that located.
Victor Alvarez: That was located on the floor in the master bathroom next to the sink area, so it would be in between the sink and the round bathtub.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
Mr. Sanger: What's the number.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm putting that on there now. Your Honor, I have a large brown paper bag with the numbers “03-5670” at the top in black. I've shown the bag and its contents to Mr. Sanger for his examination. I'd like to show it to the witness.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sanger: I guess the question was, did it have an exhibit number.
Mr. Sneddon: I beg your pardon. 288.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you take a look at the item contained in People's 288. Do you recognize that.
Victor Alvarez: I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And when and where was the first time you saw that item.
Victor Alvarez: I saw it in the master bedroom -- I'm sorry, in the master bathroom downstairs area on the floor next to the sink.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you obtained that item, what did you do with it after seizing it.
Victor Alvarez: Prior to seizing it, I opened it up and saw the material that was inside.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And then what did you do with -- did you take the materials out or did you leave them inside.
Victor Alvarez: I left them in, and I sealed this bag and the big evidence bag.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. So it was then booked into evidence.
Victor Alvarez: The whole thing was, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Move that People's 288 be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
Mr. Sanger: No objection. Obviously, other than prior objections.
The Court: Right.
Mr. Sanger: May that remain unstated.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to show you a photograph, and that photograph has been marked as People's 57 for identification purposes, and ask if you recognize that photograph.
Victor Alvarez: I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And are the areas depicted in that photograph an accurate depiction as you saw it on the morning of November the 18th, 2003.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Move that be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
Mr. Sanger: I have no objection.
The Court: All right. It's admitted.
The Bailiff: Your Honor, would you hit the button.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, we're going to need the Elmo.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. People's 57 is up on the board. Do you recognize that photograph.
Victor Alvarez: I do.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Could you show the ladies and gentlemen of the jury where the bag, People's 288, was the first time that you saw it on November 18th, 2003.
Victor Alvarez: It would be right here. Can you see. It would be right there.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. You're indicating at the base of the cabinet just below the big speaker.
Victor Alvarez: Right. Here's the sink. There's the bag. And the tub is over here somewhere.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Go ahead and sit down, if you want. Now, we can put the lights back on, Your Honor, for right now. All right. Are you okay. Your Honor, I'll describe for the record what we've just done with counsel. We've marked for identification three items. The first item is a small brown bag with some white paper on it, with the number 0-3-5670, and has on it the Exhibit 565. Exhibit No. 566 is a large plastic bag, which has a white binder, and it has the number “Item 309-B-1” on the front of it. And the last item is Item 3 -- I'm sorry, Item 567. That's another white, clear plastic bag, and with -- containing a white binder with the number “Item 309-B-2” on it. In addition to that, Your Honor, I have -- in addition to that, Your Honor, I've shown counsel two photographs. The first one I'm going to have marked as 289 for identification purposes, and the second one I'm going to have marked as 290 for identification purposes. Madam Clerk, is that okay.
The Clerk: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Why don't you go ahead and take that bag, the black bag, Exhibit 288, and put it back in there, if you would. All right. Let's start with the smallest of the bags, the brown bag there, and the number on that is 289.
Victor Alvarez: It says “565”.
Mr. Sneddon: Oh, 565. I'm sorry. You're right. We already pre-numbered those. Different numbering system. Okay, 565.
Victor Alvarez: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to that particular item, do you recognize it.
Victor Alvarez: I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And when and where was it the first time you saw it.
Victor Alvarez: Inside the black computer bag.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Victor Alvarez: Actually, the contents were inside the black computer bag.
Mr. Sneddon: The brown bag wasn't.
Victor Alvarez: But the contents were, right. Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Why don't you take the brown bag out -- or take the contents out.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, do you recognize those items that you just pulled out.
Victor Alvarez: I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And how do you recognize them.
Victor Alvarez: Just from reading the contents, the outside package of them.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall those are the ones you found inside of the Exhibit 288.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you -- were you the one responsible for placing them into that envelope and booking them into evidence.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I move that the contents of 565, the bag and the contents, be admitted into evidence.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let me have those for a second. Your Honor, we're going to need the lights down.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to 565, there are two videos inside and I'm going to show the first one. Just go ahead and show it. Now, is that one of the exhibits that you found inside that black briefcase.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Why don't you show the other one.
Victor Alvarez: Can you see.
The Jury: (In unison) Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Probably don't want to.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that the other one that you found.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Thank you. By the way, inside of that briefcase, do you recall whether you found any documents or indicia of belonging to Mr. Jackson.
Victor Alvarez: I don't recall.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. We'll get back to that. Now, let's take the clear plastic bags that are in front of you, okay. And let's talk, first of all, about the one that is marked as 565 for identification purposes. Do you see that.
Victor Alvarez: No, I see 290 and 289.
Mr. Sneddon: No, not the --
Victor Alvarez: I'm sorry.
The Court: 565 is the one you just showed.
Victor Alvarez: 567.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry, Your Honor.
Victor Alvarez: I have 567 and 566.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. My sheet's wrong.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's talk about 566 first. Now, with regard to -- there's a photograph up there in front of you that goes with that binder, correct.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: You can flip it over on the other side to match up the number.
Victor Alvarez: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that correct.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the photograph is exhibit what.
Victor Alvarez: 289.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, is 289 an accurate depiction of the front cover of the Exhibit 566. Take it out and look at it, if you want to.
Victor Alvarez: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sneddon: Move that 289 be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to the Exhibit 566, that's the item that you found in the bag and that was also booked into evidence; is that correct.
Victor Alvarez: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And you were responsible for that.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I move that 566 be admitted.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object to 566. It's been placed in a binder, and there's -- there's not an adequate foundation for the exhibit as offered right now.
The Court: All right. Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. That's not a problem.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Why don't you put that back in the bag. Let's turn to 567.
Victor Alvarez: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: And there's a photograph that goes with 567. And what's the number on that. 290.
Victor Alvarez: 290.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, with regard to the Exhibit 567, where was that the first time you saw it.
Victor Alvarez: Inside the black computer bag.
Mr. Sneddon: The one that's in evidence as 288.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And were you responsible for booking that into evidence.
Victor Alvarez: I was.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at the time that -- that you booked that particular item into evidence, was it in a binder like that.
Victor Alvarez: No, it wasn't.
Mr. Sneddon: It was still all together.
Victor Alvarez: Like a normal paperback magazine.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, take a look at the Exhibit 290, the photograph.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is the Exhibit 290 an accurate depiction of the front cover of the Exhibit 567.
Victor Alvarez: It is.
Mr. Sneddon: Move that 290 be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: Ron. Would you scoot that down so we can see. All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Detective Alvarez, the exhibit marked as 289, is that the exhibit that you found inside of 288.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that the condition of the magazine at the time that you seized it.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's put up 290. And was this the other magazine you seized.
Victor Alvarez: Yes, it was.
Mr. Sneddon: And was that the condition of the magazine at the time you seized it.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Thank you. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: In addition to that, Your Honor, I have -- I'll identify this in just a moment.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Or I can do it now, if it makes it easier. I have a brown paper bag with the number “304” in black letters in the upper right-hand corner. And that's been marked as People's 562, the brown and its contents. “The brown”. The bag. And then there is a clear plastic bag, Your Honor, that contains two exhibits. One is a white -- another plastic bag with a white binder with the number “563” on it, and the number “Item 304-C” on the outside. And the next item has been marked as 564, and it's another white binder with “Item 304-D” on it, Your Honor. And then I have three exhibits that I'd like to have marked. The first one is -- is a photograph marked as 291. The second one is another photograph that has the number “304-C” on it, and that is 292. And the last photograph is 304-D, and that will be 293. Do you want to look at these.
Mr. Sanger: I think I know what they are, but let me look at them.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: And maybe you could -- I'll take these back, actually. How's that. Okay. Detective Alvarez, let's start with the brown bag, if we could. That, I believe, is Exhibit 563.
Victor Alvarez: 291. Brown bag is 291. Or, I'm sorry, 562.
Mr. Sneddon: 562, all right. Do you recognize the bag.
Victor Alvarez: I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And how do you recognize it.
Victor Alvarez: I booked this into evidence.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Would you open the bag up and take out the contents. All right. Do you recognize the contents.
Victor Alvarez: I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And when and where was that. Where did you see that for the first time.
Victor Alvarez: In the master bed -- master bedroom bathroom in between the sink and the tub, on the floor area.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that one of the items you collected.
Victor Alvarez: I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, there is a photograph.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: 291. Do you see that.
Victor Alvarez: I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that photograph an accurate depiction, or does it accurately depict the cover of the exhibit --
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- 562.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is the exhibit, 562, the magazine you've taken out of the brown bag, in the same condition that it was at the time that you seized it on November 18th, 2003.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I move it be admitted, Your Honor.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's move -- if I didn't, Your Honor, I'd like to move that 291 be admitted, the photograph.
The Court: It's admitted. Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, if we can move to the next exhibit, one of the -- either one of the binders is fine. Take whatever one you have. Tell us an exhibit number on that one.
Victor Alvarez: 564.
Mr. Sneddon: And does that have an item number on it, on the front of the binder.
Victor Alvarez: Item number is 304-D.
Mr. Sneddon: 304 --
Victor Alvarez: “D” as in “David”.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, you have a photograph up there.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: That's 293, I believe.
Victor Alvarez: 293.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Would you compare 293 with the front cover of the Exhibit 564.
Victor Alvarez: It's the same.
Mr. Sneddon: And what's -- and that's 293, correct.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: The photo. And is that --
Victor Alvarez: 293.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that an accurate depiction of the cover of the Exhibit 564.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to the Exhibit 564, at the time that you first saw it and the time that you seized it, was it in the condition that it is in now.
Victor Alvarez: No.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you seized it and placed it into evidence, what was the condition of that particular item that we've had identified as Exhibit 564.
Victor Alvarez: It was in a regular paperback magazine condition.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. All right. Let's -- you can put that one back in the bag, if you'd like. And if you'd keep the photograph, 293, with it, that would be great. Now, let's direct your attention to the last exhibit that you have up there.
Victor Alvarez: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: And the number on that is what, on the plastic bag with the --
Victor Alvarez: Okay. The item number is 304-C --
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Victor Alvarez: -- as in “Charles”.
Mr. Sneddon: And what's the exhibit number.
Victor Alvarez: 563.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, with regard to that particular exhibit, there is a photograph up there, correct.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: 292.
Victor Alvarez: 292.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you comapre the photograph, 292, with the front cover of Exhibit 563.
Victor Alvarez: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: And is it an accurate depiction of what that cover looks like.
Victor Alvarez: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to that particular exhibit, 563, was that exhibit in a binder when you first found it.
Victor Alvarez: No, it wasn't.
Mr. Sneddon: What was its condition at the time that you seized it and booked it into evidence.
Victor Alvarez: It was a regular paperback magazine condition.
Mr. Sneddon: Hand me the photographs, the three photographs, if you would. And go ahead and put that back in the bag. All right. We're going to display the exhibits on the board. We're going to start with 291. It's in evidence. Is that an accurate depiction of the book at the time you first saw it and seized it.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: At least the cover.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Go ahead, you can -- that's 293, correct.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that an accurate depiction of the book when you first saw it and seized it.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
The Court: 292 and 293 haven't gone into evidence yet. You didn't ask for them.
Mr. Sneddon: I do, then, Your Honor. I apologize. I get so routine about them.
The Court: All right. 292 and 293 are admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. So did we --
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: Was 292 already up.
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's do the last one, 293, then.
Mr. Zonen: 293 was the last one. 292 is the one before it.
Mr. Sneddon: We're going to do 292 now.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize that.
Victor Alvarez: I do.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that the condition of the magazine at the time that you seized it.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And I say -- by “that”, I mean the Exhibit 292.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: That's depicted in that.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Thank you. When you seized the bag, 309 --
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- okay. - did you go through the contents of the bag or did you just --
Victor Alvarez: Yes, I did. I opened it up, and I saw what was inside.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you go through the paperwork in the bag.
Victor Alvarez: I went through everything that was in that bag.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Let me -- and -- I guess I have to ask you to take that bag out again. Your Honor, for purposes of the record, I want to indicate that I've withdrawn a document from Exhibit 309. I want to show it to counsel before we move to the next step, but it did come out of the exhibit. It's 288, I'm sorry.
The Court: 288.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, sir. So if you'd just hang on to that. Your Honor, I'd like to have the document marked as 294 for identification purposes.
The Court: All right. I'll need you to bring that over to the clerk here.
Mr. Sneddon: May I go this way, Your Honor.
The Clerk: He has a tag, Judge.
The Court: Oh, he has a tag.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, she gave me some ahead of time, Your Honor.
The Court: I didn't know that. Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: And I've shown this document to counsel.
Mr. Sneddon: Detective Alvarez, with regard to the document I just handed you, Exhibit 294, was that document inside the bag, 309, at the time that you seized it on November the 18th, 2003.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is it in the same condition now as it was when you saw it for the first time inside that bag.
Victor Alvarez: It sure looks like it, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Move that be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object on the grounds that it violates a current order on a pending matter, if that makes sense.
The Court: I don't have the document, so --
Mr. Sneddon: You don't have it.
Mr. Sanger: Should I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Just hand it to me. You don't need to approach.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry, Your Honor.
The Court: I'll sustain the objection pending further ruling on that issue.
Mr. Sneddon: May I have the officer testify at least showing indicia of the ownership of the bag.
The Court: Oh. For that purpose.
Mr. Sneddon: That's why I was offering it.
The Court: That's the only purpose you're offering it.
Mr. Sneddon: At this point in time, pending the Court's ruling, that's why I'm offering it.
The Court: All right. Just limit his testimony to that part of the document that would do that.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, the document that's in front of you that's 294 --
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- is it addressed to Mr. Jackson.
Victor Alvarez: It is.
Mr. Sneddon: And it's a multi-page document, correct.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Does each page bear the initials “MJ” on it.
Victor Alvarez: On all 12 pages.
Mr. Sneddon: No further questions, Your Honor.
Mr. Sanger: May I approach to retrieve the exhibits.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: Here's some of them.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: All right. Let's start with your background, if I may, Detective Alvarez. You were a deputy marshal.
Victor Alvarez: Right.
Mr. Sanger: How many years.
Victor Alvarez: Well, it was from '83 to '97.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And your duties as a deputy marshal were to be a bailiff in the Municipal Court in the South County, in Santa Barbara.
Victor Alvarez: For, yeah, that, and serve warrants, evictions, civil process.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Victor Alvarez: Criminal warrants.
Mr. Sanger: And then after the courts consolidated, the Municipal Court consolidated with the Superior Court, you opted to become a deputy sheriff; is that correct.
Victor Alvarez: We were absorbed as a -- one department.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So when the courts consolidated, the marshal then -- the marshal's office consolidated.
Victor Alvarez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And the deputy marshals then became deputy sheriffs; is that right.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And at that point you began working as a detective immediately.
Victor Alvarez: No.
Mr. Sanger: You were on patrol for a while.
Victor Alvarez: Well, I went to -- I became a background investigator. I actually had a knee injury that put me out on light duty for about six months. And I continued to work, and I was -- I worked in personnel as a background investigator. I went -- once I was cleared by my doctor, I went back to work in the courts for -- so --
Mr. Sanger: For a while, okay. And when you say “personnel investigator”, you were doing background checks for people who were applying to work at the sheriff's department.
Victor Alvarez: That's correct. New hires.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Victor Alvarez: And also, I was helping in the detective bureau doing interviews and -- just helping out.
Mr. Sanger: All right. There you go. In any event, I guess my question is, when did you become a detective.
Victor Alvarez: November of '99.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So as of the time of the case that we're talking about here, the -- let me withdraw that. When did you become involved in this case.
Victor Alvarez: Approximately a week before the initial search, which was November 18th of 2002.
Mr. Sanger: How about November 18th of 2003.
Victor Alvarez: 2003.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Victor Alvarez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: I don't want to talk you into anything, but --
Victor Alvarez: A year and a half ago.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So -- and you started as a detective in November of '99, right. So you had four years as a detective at the time you were assigned to this case.
Victor Alvarez: Approximately.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Victor Alvarez: I've got over five years as a detective now, and I've been on this case for about a year and a half.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So that would be about four years, right.
Victor Alvarez: Sounds good to me.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And you remained -- after you were brought into the case, you remained as one of the main detectives on this case; is that correct.
Victor Alvarez: That's correct. One of the lead investigators.
Mr. Sanger: So you're a co-lead investigator with Detective Zelis and with Sergeant Robel.
Victor Alvarez: And Detective Bonner, yes.
Mr. Sanger: And Detective Bonner. All right. Okay. Now, let me ask you -- let's just start again somewhat at the end of things. You were aware, were you not, sir, that the events in this case were alleged to have occurred in February and March of 2003; is that right.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And so in November of 2003, you get assigned to the case and eventually you end up out at Neverland Valley Ranch during the search, correct.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to ask you -- in fact, what I might do is just approach -- well, let's do it this way. Let me put it up, if the Court doesn't mind. Are we hooked up to this.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead.
Mr. Sanger: These were 293 and 292.
Mr. Sanger: 292 is a “Penthouse” magazine of some sort, right.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And that's commercially available, correct.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: It's also not unlawful to possess it, in and of itself, correct.
Victor Alvarez: No.
Mr. Sanger: I said “correct”. I'm sorry. Is it lawful to possess it, for an adult to possess this magazine.
Victor Alvarez: For an adult, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. There you go. All right. And you're aware that the alleged incidents, the incidents were alleged to have occurred in February and March of 2003, right.
Victor Alvarez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: What's the date on this magazine.
Victor Alvarez: I can't read it from here. It's --
Mr. Sanger: Okay. May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I can bring you the magazine, but I think you can see it on the exhibit here.
Victor Alvarez: I still can't read that.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Let me bring you the book that goes along with that. May I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to bring you the books here, and we'll talk about these a little more in a minute. I'll ask you, if you look at that -- Let me stand here for one second, Your Honor, and make sure.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. That's the actual magazine. What's the date of the magazine.
Victor Alvarez: I don't see a date on it.
Mr. Sanger: You don't see a date on it.
Victor Alvarez: I don't.
The Court: You can go up and show where it is.
Mr. Sanger: Look right under the “SE” in “Penthouse”.
Victor Alvarez: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Does it say “July-August of 2003”.
Victor Alvarez: It does.
Mr. Sanger: So is it safe to say, to your knowledge, as one of the co-lead investigators, no individual associated with this case, none of the Arvizos claimed that they saw this particular magazine in February or March of 2003.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, can I object to that question as being compound. Because -- I won't say anything else, but I object as compound.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Mr. Sanger: To your knowledge, did -- well, this may be compound. I'm going to ask about them as a group. You can say “yes” or “no”, and we can take it one by one. To your knowledge, did any of the Arvizos claim that they saw this magazine in February or March of 2003.
Victor Alvarez: This particular one.
Mr. Sanger: Yes. That particular one.
Victor Alvarez: I don't know.
Mr. Sanger: As a detective, an investigator, you would suspect that they would not have seen it, correct, since it was published after the events.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to that. It calls for a conclusion as to when it was published. No more. I object. Lack of foundation as to when the magazine actually hit the stands.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Mr. Sanger: Based on your experience, do magazines hit the stands, you know, three or four months before their publication date.
Victor Alvarez: No.
Mr. Sanger: Sometimes it's a month before a publication date.
Victor Alvarez: I'd say a month. If you're a subscriber, you usually get them a month early.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And I'm going -- I brought you the other book, just in case you can't read this. But I'm going to put up 293, if I may, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And again, this is a commercially available magazine; is that correct.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you can buy it in a store, in other words.
Victor Alvarez: Some stores.
Mr. Sanger: Yes. Well, not every store, I would agree. What's the date on this magazine.
Victor Alvarez: July 2003.
Mr. Sanger: While you have those books up there, you notice that the books -- I'm going to take another one out of the bag here, just as an example, just to follow on, but you notice that the books are encased in a three-ring binder, and then each page appears to be in some kind of plastic sleeve; is that correct.
Victor Alvarez: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And did you do that.
Victor Alvarez: I did not.
Mr. Sanger: Let me ask you about the magazine -- I think you may still have the actual magazine up there, but I have 291, which is 562. Put it this way, 562 is the actual magazine. 291 is the copy of the cover. Oh, here it is.
Victor Alvarez: I have 564 and 563, Mr. Sanger.
Mr. Sanger: You're right, it's over here. In any event, I'm going to put this up, if I may, 291, Your Honor. 291 is a book, correct.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: That's a cover of the book that you seized; is that right.
Victor Alvarez: That's correct. Soft-cover book.
Mr. Sanger: And the actual book is a book of illustrations done by an artist, is that correct, or by artists.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And that is also a commercially available publication. Is that a commercially available publication.
Victor Alvarez: It appears to be.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And it's not illegal to possess that per se.
Victor Alvarez: No.
Mr. Sanger: Now, excuse me one second. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Sanger: You did the prints that were marked as Exhibit 287, right.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And you -- to take those fingerprints, you simply rolled the fingerprints.
Victor Alvarez: They weren't done with a machine. But the palm prints were done with a roller.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Say that again, because I couldn't hear what you said.
Victor Alvarez: You're looking at the fingerprints themselves.
Mr. Sanger: Fingerprint cards.
Victor Alvarez: Those were done by hand.
Mr. Sanger: So you actually rolled the prints.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: You had --
Victor Alvarez: There's a technique, but, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And you are not a certified fingerprint examiner; is that correct.
Victor Alvarez: Not examiner, no.
Mr. Sanger: All right. You, however, have experience in booking people and rolling their prints, right.
Victor Alvarez: Booking a lot of people and booking a lot of prints.
Mr. Sanger: All right. But you know the difference between that and being a certified fingerprint examiner, of course.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, going back to your testimony about going through the house, you got there and started your assignment of searching through the house at some time late morning, I think you said it was around 11:00.
Victor Alvarez: I think I got there at -- I think we interviewed Mr. Salas for about two hours. And driving time from Santa Maria to Los Olivos, another, I don't know, half hour, 40 minutes. So it was close to 10:00 when we got there.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And then --
Victor Alvarez: Or a little after 10:00.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And your first assignment was to do something else other than search.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: So what I'm getting at, is when you started to assist in the search, that was around 11:00.
Victor Alvarez: Could be.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And by the time you got there to search, quite a number of officers had already been through the house; is that correct.
Victor Alvarez: There were -- excuse me. There were a lot of officers in the house, but not in Mr. Jackson's master bedroom area.
Mr. Sanger: How many officers were in Mr. Jackson's master bedroom area when you first arrived there.
Victor Alvarez: Could have been two or three maybe.
Mr. Sanger: When you --
Victor Alvarez: To start.
Mr. Sanger: When you say “master bedroom area”, you're talking about the whole suite, the first floor, second floor, the bathrooms, all that.
Victor Alvarez: Yes, I'm talking about down the corridor area where the secure door is.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And you believe there are two or three officers there when you arrive.
Victor Alvarez: No, when I started assisting.
Mr. Sanger: Well, that's what I meant. When you arrived to assist. When you started assisting on the search.
Victor Alvarez: Yes, there wasn't a whole lot of detectives in that area.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Were you joined by other officers or other law enforcement people in that room as the time went on.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: How many people were in there. How many different people were in there while you were there.
Victor Alvarez: Throughout the day.
Mr. Sanger: Yes.
Victor Alvarez: I -- there was quite a few detectives in there, and forensic people, yes.
Mr. Sanger: And Mr. Sneddon came through at one point, did he not.
Victor Alvarez: He did.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did Mr. Franklin go through that area of the house.
Victor Alvarez: He did.
Mr. Sanger: Before you got there -- by “there”, I mean, you started your search detail. Do you know how many officers had gone through that area.
Victor Alvarez: I can't tell you an exact number, but I know it was very limited, because that was the instructions.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So if people followed the instructions, it would have been limited; is that correct.
Victor Alvarez: “If people followed the instructions”, I didn't hear your second half.
Mr. Sanger: It would have been limited; is that correct.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you're aware there was a cameraman and a number of detectives who went through the area before the search started itself; is that correct. Well, let me put it this way: I guess that's part of the search. Before the actual seizures of items commenced, a cameraman and detectives walked through the area; is that right.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as lack of foundation.
The Court: Sustained. Just a minute. My feed's not working.
The Reporter: I know, Judge. We're working on bringing it back up.
The Court: All right. Go ahead.
Mr. Sanger: When you located this black bag that you referred to - and you've got it up there. I believe it's Exhibit No. 288 - it was in the position that you indicated to the jury on the photograph, correct.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And about what time of day did you locate that black bag there.
Victor Alvarez: I can't recall the exact time.
Mr. Sanger: Did you note it in a report.
Victor Alvarez: It might be on the bag when it was booked in.
Mr. Sanger: Do you have the bag there or -- if it helps refresh your recollection.
Victor Alvarez: That looks right.
Mr. Sanger: Now, having looked at that, do you have a recollection of when you located that bag.
Victor Alvarez: It says two o'clock in the afternoon.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. But the question is, did that refresh your recollection as to approximately when you located it. About two o'clock.
Victor Alvarez: It's hard to say. Probably -- I was there from eleven o'clock, starting the search, to 11:30 that night, so somewhere between 11:00, I would say, and early afternoon.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Do you have Exhibit 294 up there. No, you don't. It's here. Do you remember Exhibit 294. May I approach to show him.
Victor Alvarez: Yes. The paperwork.
Mr. Sanger: The paperwork. All right. The paperwork is -- without going into the contents of it, it's addressed to Michael -- it's a letter addressed to Michael Jackson, care of a company in Los Angeles; is that correct.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then it's also addressed to two other entities of some sort, two other entities.
Victor Alvarez: Right.
Mr. Sanger: So it appears to you, from the letter, that it's the kind of letter that went out -- or is a letter that went out to three different recipients; is that right.
Victor Alvarez: Yes. It's addressed to three different people, it looks like, on the front page.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And there's no indication by way of a check mark, or a circle, or anything else, as to which copy this was; is that correct.
Victor Alvarez: No, I don't believe so.
Mr. Sanger: All right. In the exhibit that's marked Exhibit 565, there's two videos; is that correct.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Or there are two video cases; is that correct.
Victor Alvarez: Right.
Mr. Sanger: And one of the video cases does not have a video -- I mean, it doesn't have a CD in it, or whatever, DVD; is that correct.
Victor Alvarez: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: There's no contents is what I'm trying to say.
Victor Alvarez: It's an empty case.
Mr. Sanger: And you didn't find that video anywhere in your search, did you.
Victor Alvarez: I personally did not.
Mr. Sanger: That also -- that appears to be a commercially prepared -- or commercially, yeah, prepared video of some sort; is that right.
Victor Alvarez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And nothing unlawful about owning that video.
Victor Alvarez: If you're over 18.
Mr. Sanger: If you're over 18. The other one, entitled “Believe It or Not”, appears to be a Leisure Time Europe video; is that correct.
Victor Alvarez: I remember the front of it. I don't know anything about Leisure Time Europe.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And this particular video -- okay. Mr. Zonen is trying to bring me up to date here.
Victor Alvarez: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: He's reminding me it's a DVD, not a video. But all right. I suppose it's a video captured on a DVD, but we could both be right. But I accept that assistance. May I approach the witness, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to ask you about this. And put on your glasses, if necessary, reading the fine print down there.
Victor Alvarez: I don't have my glasses.
Mr. Sanger: These won't help you. Can you see it.
Victor Alvarez: No.
Mr. Sanger: Can't see it. Do we, by any chance, have a magnifying glass, or does somebody have reading glasses. I have bifocals, and I don't want to -- Are these reading glasses. We've got some. We'll find out how well they work. I should get a waiver on practicing optometry.
Victor Alvarez: I can read it now. It's still really small, but I can read it.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Didn't get any bigger, but you can read it. All right. On that disk, does it say when the disk was released.
Victor Alvarez: Well, it says July 3 of 1995.
Mr. Sanger: No, that's not when it was released. That's something to do with the -- it's not in front of me, but it has something to do with the law.
Victor Alvarez: I'm still reading.
Mr. Sanger: Right down at the very end.
Victor Alvarez: “Which was produced on 1-22-03 and released on 3-27 of '03. Printed in the USA”.
Mr. Sanger: All right. To your knowledge, as a co-lead investigator in this case, to your knowledge, no witness has identified either one of those videos or video boxes; is that correct.
Victor Alvarez: Per name, no.
Mr. Sanger: Hang on one second. All right. I have no further questions. Oh, wait. Wait one second.
Mr. Sanger: One of my colleagues pointed out something. Let me ask you about this. And I may have to approach for this purpose. May I do that, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to show you 294, which again has not been received into evidence. There's been limited testimony about it. I'll take these back.
Victor Alvarez: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: What is the date of that letter.
Victor Alvarez: May 1, 2003.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you. All right. I have no further questions.
Mr. Sneddon: No questions.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down.
Victor Alvarez: Thank you.
The Court: I think I'll let the jury step out early. I have a couple of things to take up with the attorneys before we take our break, so you get a longer break right now.
The Jury: (In unison) Thank you.
The Court: But no pizza.
The Jury: (In unison) Ahh.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: All right. The jury is out of the room. The first thing I wanted to take up with you is the -- the prosecution has asked for a little more time to respond to the motion -- points and authorities on George Lopez evidence, which I had asked them to have in by today, I think. So I'm not quite sure what -- how much more time did you want.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, is it the case that the Court requests of Mr. Blancarte, who's the attorney --
The Court: No, no, I'm not addressing that. They can't hear you in the back here. I just want to know how much time you need to respond. I know what you said.
Mr. Zonen: This is on the issue of Lopez.
The Court: Get to the microphone.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry. The answer is a couple days after we received --
The Court: I don't know about receiving it. It's not conditional on that. I'd like you to respond to the points and authorities.
Mr. Zonen: Then we can have it within two days.
The Court: All right. Friday.
Mr. Zonen: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. I'll extend that time.
Mr. Sanger: Is there going to be a date for a hearing on that, Your Honor.
The Court: We're just going to fit it in. It wasn't a formal motion. I asked you -- or you volunteered a little more points and authorities, and I'm not treating it as some date. I want to read what you say, and if I want to hear any more from you, I'll let you know.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
The Court: The second thing is the issue of the request by the People to respond -- to have their 1108 hearing. And did you just get that today.
Mr. Mesereau: Just got it, yes, Your Honor.
The Court: I'm going to treat this the same way. It's not a motion, you know. It's something in abeyance; when are we going to have it; and they're asking, “Can we have it sooner than later”. And I want to give you a couple of days to respond. How much time do you need.
Mr. Mesereau: Let's see, today's Wednesday. Could we -- we would certainly need through the end of the week.
The Court: Through Friday.
Mr. Mesereau: Could we -- could we file it Monday, Your Honor.
The Court: They're asking to do it next week, so I don't think that's right. We could handle it orally. I mean, it's not a thing that even needs written points and authorities. The question is, when is the right time to hear it. I want to give you a chance to file something.
Mr. Mesereau: I appreciate it. Today's -- I guess we could file something Friday, Your Honor.
The Court: Okay. Bring it in with you --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: -- when you come in.
Mr. Mesereau: As far as the hearing goes, is the Court contemplating a hearing where they simply call witnesses, or do we get a chance, if we choose, to put on our own witnesses to attack their credibility.
The Court: Well, I said that they definitely have to call witnesses. Then -- and I'm really going to be judging their evidence. But I would consider an offer by you.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. For example, Your Honor, there's some witnesses --
The Court: You don't need to -- I can imagine the example already. You don't need to go into it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: I guess the answer is maybe, depending on what I hear and what your offer of proof is then. And let me look at -- in the meantime, I'll look at the law, if you want to give me anything on that. It is unusual to have opposing evidence at a hearing like that, but I'm not sure it's not -- I'm not sure that that means that that's not what we should do.
Mr. Mesereau: You could at a hearing, for example, put on witnesses that say, “They told me the opposite”, or “They have a reputation for lying”, that type of thing.
The Court: I see. I expected you to be talking about credibility issues.
Mr. Mesereau: We have one Judge's order certified from another trial that --
The Court: This is not the time to argue. But I will take under consideration what you're suggesting. All right.
Mr. Sanger: There was one other matter that is still floating - if I could just click my computer once. Thank you - and that was the issue you were going to take up on Thursday, which --
The Court: That's the George Lopez.
Mr. Sanger: No, there was the motions to quash and the remedy, the financial --
The Court: Oh, yes. Yeah. They can't hear you in the back. I need the break. I've promised the court reporters not to do this.
Mr. Sanger: Just wanted to remind you, that's all.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Call your next witness.
Mr. Sneddon: Karen Shepherd.
The Court: Come forward, please. When you get to the witness stand, remain standing, raise your right hand and face the clerk.
Message: KAREN SHEPHERD Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Karen Shepherd: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Karen Shepherd: Karen Shepherd, S-h-e-p-h-e-r-d.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Scoot up close to that thing so we can all hear what you have to say. Thank you. You're employed by the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And how long have you been with the department.
Karen Shepherd: For approximately seven and a half years.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you have any law enforcement experience before that.
Karen Shepherd: No.
Mr. Sneddon: And what is your current assignment.
Karen Shepherd: My current assignment is I'm a detective with the Special Operations Division. That started just this Monday. Before that, I was assigned to the Criminal Investigations Division.
Mr. Sneddon: And in connection with those responsibilities, were you assigned to perform some search responsibilities in connection with a search warrant executed on Neverland Valley Ranch on November the 18th of 2003.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And specifically, do you recall about what time you got there.
Karen Shepherd: It was early in the morning before the sun was out. We had a briefing in the Solvang area.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And you eventually went to the ranch.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What responsibilities were you assigned at the ranch.
Karen Shepherd: I was first assigned to search the main house, the master bedroom and master bathroom area.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall about what time it was that you started those responsibilities.
Karen Shepherd: I believe -- I don't know the exact time. I can estimate maybe 10:00 a.m. is when we started.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, in the course of your working and doing this search, what area were you searching.
Karen Shepherd: I focused most of my searching in the master bathroom area.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, during the course of the time that you were there, did you seize some items for evidence.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you seized an item or items, what was the process you used in order to have them booked into evidence.
Karen Shepherd: If I found an item that I thought was of interest, I would tell either the investigating officer or someone who was in charge. I would take the evidence, if it was something that they wanted, and I gave it to Detective Padilla, who was in charge of seizing and packaging the evidence.
Mr. Sneddon: And in some cases were the items photographed in their location.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, I'm going to show you some photographs and ask you some questions about those photographs. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Do you recognize the photograph, People's 59. It's 59, is it not --
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- for identification that I placed in front of you.
Karen Shepherd: Yes, I do recognize it.
Mr. Sneddon: And does it accurately depict the area that it purports to represent.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Move that it be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
The Court: It's admitted.
Karen Shepherd: I'm going to need it.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, you are. Okay. Now, before we get to the overhead, I want to ask you a couple of other questions. I have a package that's been marked, Your Honor, as People's 569 for identification purposes. It's a brown bag; has Item No. 301 at the top, and inside the bag are five DVDs. I'm withdrawing them from the bag, showing them to counsel, and they're marked 570 through 574 respectively.
Mr. Sneddon: Detective Shepherd, I've handed you the exhibit that's been marked as 569, which is the brown bag, and the five DVDs that are marked 70 through 74 respectively. Would you take the DVDs out of the bag and examine them, please. Do you recognize those.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall where they were the first time that you saw them.
Karen Shepherd: Yes. They were on top of the television. There's a television that's alongside the Jacuzzi tub and they were stacked on top of the television.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you seize those items.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you arrange to have them booked into evidence.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And are those items in the same condition now as they were when you seized them.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Move that they be admitted into evidence, Your Honor; 69 through 74.
The Court: They're admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: Now I'm going to put the overhead on for just a second.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. This is the photograph that you have just identified moments ago as People's 59, which is now in evidence. Do you recognize that.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I had you pick up a little laser pointer. And could you indicate to the ladies and gentlemen of the jury the location of the Items 570 through 574 at the time that you first saw them.
Karen Shepherd: Right there on top of the T.V.
Mr. Sneddon: Right on top of the T.V., okay. Now, at the time that you were out there that day, did you take any other items of evidence.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What else did you take.
Karen Shepherd: Can I use the laser pointer.
Mr. Sneddon: Sure. Absolutely. That's what I want you to do.
Karen Shepherd: Okay. There was a magazine that contained adult material that I found within this stack of books and magazines. There was another magazine containing adult material which was inside of this metal briefcase. And I also found three books in this plastic bag that contained adult material.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, we're going to talk about those in a little bit more detail now, but I think we can turn the lights back on. Okay. I've handed you back the photograph that the jury just saw that was up on the board, People's 59. What I want you to do, there's a black pen right in front of you there, and I'm going to ask you to take the exhibit, People's 59, and I want you to draw a little circle around the area where you found the DVDs that are in People's 570 through 574, and right from the circle put a little line, “570 through 574”.
Karen Shepherd: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: And would you put your initials by that, please. And what did you put.
Karen Shepherd: “KKS”.
Mr. Sneddon: “KKS”.
Karen Shepherd: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. I think we're ready to go now.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. We have a brown paper bag which has been marked as People's 576 for identification purposes, okay. I want to ask you to take a look at that bag, and then I'm going to ask you some questions about it and the contents. All right. Do you recognize the items that were contained in the bag, 576.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when and where were those items the first time that you saw them.
Karen Shepherd: They were inside the plastic bag near the bookcase.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you the one responsible for taking those and placing them into evidence, having them booked.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to the item -- the items that you took out are what, three books.
Karen Shepherd: Three books, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And those books have individual numbers; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to Item No. 577, do you see that.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, in front of you are some photographs. Can you mate up the photograph with the -- I believe it's 297.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that photograph an accurate depiction of a book that you seized, which is marked as 577.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's go to the next one, 578. Do you have that in front of you.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: That's one of the books you seized, correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to 578, there's a photograph, 296.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that photograph, 296, an accurate depiction of the book that you seized, 578.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to the next item, which is 579 --
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: -- do you see that.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And 579, there's a photograph marked as 631.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that an accurate depiction of the front cover of the Item 579.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, with regard to the Items 577, 78 and 79, these are the items that you seized and then had booked into evidence; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And are they in the same condition now as they were at the time you seized them and had them booked.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I move 576 through 579 be admitted into evidence.
The Court: All right. They're admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: And I request that photograph 297, 296 and 631 be admitted into evidence.
The Court: They're admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: Mr. Zonen thinks I neglected 578. If I did, I'm sorry. It should be 576, 77, 78, 79.
The Court: That's what I thought you had requested admission of. I admitted those.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to the exhibits, 577 through 79, you have the photograph in front of you, People's 59.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And could you indicate to the ladies and gentlemen of the jury, by placing on that exhibit, the location of the area, the approximate location of where you seized the Items 577, 578 and 579.
Karen Shepherd: With a black marker.
Mr. Sneddon: Please. If you would.
Karen Shepherd: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Mr. Zonen. We're going to need the lights, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, on the board is the exhibit marked as People's 296 that's in evidence. Do you recognize that.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And that's the cover -- that's the photograph that you indicated reflects the cover of that particular item that you seized.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And by “that particular item that you seized”, I'm talking about 578 --
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: -- is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Thank you. And 297, the photograph of 297 reflects the front cover of Item 577; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And those were all seized in that plastic bag.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the last one, which is 631, do you recognize that.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Was that also in the plastic bag.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And this is Exhibit 631, and it would be -- the actual book itself is 579.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you. Your Honor, I have another bag that I've shown to counsel for his examination that I'd like to have marked as 575 for identification purposes. It's a brown bag with the number “#302” at the top.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to hand you -- oh, wait. I need to show these to counsel. While we're doing this, if you would simply look at the Exhibit 575, it might save some time. I guess I've already showed it to him. Okay.
Karen Shepherd: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, before we start talking about 575 for a moment, I want to go back. I gave you some photographs, correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And there's a photograph that shows the Exhibit 570 through 574, correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And what exhibit number is that.
Karen Shepherd: 65.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to that particular photograph, is that an accurate depiction of where those items were located at the time that you seized them --
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- on November 18th.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Move that that photograph, People's 65, be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now let's deal with that bag that I gave you, which is 575. All right. Do you recognize the bag.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recognize the contents inside the bag.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to that particular item, where was it the first time that you saw it.
Karen Shepherd: It was within a stack of books and magazines located on the edge of the Jacuzzi tub.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you the one responsible for seizing it and booking it into evidence.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to the Exhibit 575, Your Honor, which I seek to admit into evidence at this time --
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, there's a photograph in front of you. It's marked as People's 64 for identification.
Karen Shepherd: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: I better look at that. That didn't quite look like the right one. Have I asked you about this one here.
Karen Shepherd: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. This is the one. All right. I misspoke myself. Not for the first time today. People's 62 for identification, do you recognize that.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is it an accurate depiction of what it purports to represent.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: I'd move that 62 be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to the exhibit, People's 62, do you see in that exhibit the location where you found the Item 575.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Could you take that little magic marker you've got up there again and put a little line to just the general area, and then put a “575” on it.
Karen Shepherd: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: The next exhibit, Your Honor, has been marked as People's 580 for identification. It's a clear plastic bag; has “#306” marked on it, and it appears to contain a binder. I've shown it to counsel.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Do you recognize the item depicted in that photograph. I'm sorry, I'm on automatic pilot here. With regard to the exhibit I just handed you, the item number on that is 580, the plastic bag.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, could you take the binder out of it, if you would, please, and just examine -- there was a brown bag inside of the plastic bag, correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And that's the brown bag that you use for booking evidence; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, look at the binder, if you would. Just the front cover. All right. Do you recognize that item.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Where was that item the first time that you saw it.
Karen Shepherd: It was located inside the metal briefcase that was on the edge of the Jacuzzi tub.
Mr. Sneddon: And you opened the briefcase and withdrew the item.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you have a photograph of it taken before you had it booked into evidence --
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- to document the location of where you found it.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And I believe there's a photograph in front of you.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Was that the photograph that was used to document it.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: What number is that.
Karen Shepherd: It's Exhibit No. 62.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that Exhibit 62 an accurate depiction of what it purports to represent.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Move that People's 62 be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
The Court: I think it already was.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that already in.
The Court: It's in.
Mr. Sneddon: Judge, I don't want to show something that hasn't been admitted, and I want to make sure I've got this down correctly before I do it, so I don't want to get at cross-purposes. But as I understand it, People's 65 is in evidence, People's 64 is in evidence, and People's 63 is in evidence.
The Court: 62 and 65 are in evidence.
The Clerk: 64 hasn't been identified.
Mr. Sneddon: 64 has not been identified.
The Court: No.
Mr. Sneddon: But 65 and 63 have been and are in evidence.
The Court: No, 62 and 65 are in evidence.
The Clerk: Just 62 and 65. 63 and 64 have not been identified.
Mr. Sneddon: I'll take care of that. Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to the exhibit in front of you, People's 64, do you recognize that.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what is that.
Karen Shepherd: It's adult content magazine.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that an accurate depiction of what it purports to represent.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what exhibit does that match up to. What's the title on that. First of all, let me do this: Move that it be admitted into evidence, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: Man, I can't find 62.
Karen Shepherd: 62 is right here.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. That's fine.
Mr. Sneddon: When I showed you Exhibit 62 and I asked you to make notations on it as to the location where you found Item 575, was that photograph an accurate depiction of what it purports to represent.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay, Your Honor. I believe 62 and 64 should now come into evidence.
The Court: 64 and 65 are in. And you have not yet identified 63. 62 is in.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah, I -- this is 63. No, I....
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's try it again. 63; do you recognize 63.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that an accurate depiction of what it purports to represent.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Move that it be admitted, Your Honor.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to ask you some questions.
Karen Shepherd: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Go ahead.
Mr. Zonen: We need the individuals and the video.
Mr. Sneddon: I need the exhibit number on it, of 65.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to the exhibit People's No. 65, do you recognize that.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that the location of those items when you seized them.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And with regard to People's 64, do you recognize that.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is that the condition of the magazine at the time that you seized it.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And People's 63, that's the one that was inside of the metal case.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you took it out and put it on the metal case and photodocumented it.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And People's 62 is the one that you indicated the location of the Item 575.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Thank you. All right. I think we can have the lights, Your Honor. I have one last exhibit, Your Honor, that has the number “633” on it. It's a brown paper bag with the number “315” at the top right-hand corner in black. I've shown it to Mr. Sanger, and I'll show it to the witness.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Have you had a chance to examine it.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize the item --
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- 633.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And where were those items when you first saw them.
Karen Shepherd: I located these items. They were inside the master bathroom closet area. They were inside a black E-Z-Go suitcase located inside this manila envelope.
Mr. Sneddon: And you were responsible for taking those and having them booked into evidence; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And are they in the same condition as they were at the time that you seized them on November the 18th.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Move they be admitted, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. They're admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: And I believe everything is in evidence, and I appreciate the Court and clerk's help. I have no further questions.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Detective Shepherd, you were assigned -- you were detailed to do this particular work; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: You were not assigned as a co-lead investigator, or anything, on this case; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: No.
Mr. Sanger: So a number of detectives and deputies and other personnel were brought to Neverland Ranch on the 18th of November to assist, correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And do you know the approximate number of people that were there.
Karen Shepherd: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Quite a few, though.
Karen Shepherd: Quite a few.
Mr. Sanger: And a number of those people, then, after doing whatever they did, they went on with other assignments and no longer worked on the case; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And that was pretty much your situation; is that right.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, among the materials -- let me stop for a second. You went through -- as a part of your assignment that day, you went through the master bedroom suite; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: What other parts of the premises at Neverland did you go through.
Karen Shepherd: I was assigned, after the master suite area, to be the scribe in the office memorabilia room.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So just as far as what you saw - you don't have tell me what you did, but what you saw of the premises - was the main house -- did you see the whole main house.
Karen Shepherd: No. I was just in the master suite area.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Did you see the library, by any chance.
Karen Shepherd: No.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And then you went to the -- to the office, so you saw the office area, which is a building adjacent to the main house, correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Did you go to any other structures while you were there.
Karen Shepherd: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, in the part of the house that you were in, there were books and magazines and photographs and other items that were pretty much stacked up all over the place; is that right.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And among the items that were stacked up there were art books; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: History books.
Karen Shepherd: I'm sure.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Do you remember seeing any Black History books, for instance.
Karen Shepherd: I don't recall seeing any.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Did you -- and you saw a lot of memorabilia from different kinds of films or things from The Three Stooges, for instance; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: I don't recall seeing any.
Mr. Sanger: You don't, okay. Do you recall that there were a number of Three Stooges -- when I'm saying “memorabilia”, a number of things that related to The Three Stooges.
Karen Shepherd: I don't remember seeing anything related to The Three Stooges.
Mr. Sanger: A number of things related to Shirley Temple, right.
Karen Shepherd: I believe so, yes.
Mr. Sanger: A number of things related to Disney and Disney productions, correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: If we could, Your Honor, I'd like to put 65 up.
Mr. Sanger: Just coincidentally, right under the thing on the right, is something about The Three Stooges, is it not.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: None of the things that you seized were contraband; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: No.
Mr. Sanger: So, in other words, they were lawful for adults to possess.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And all of what you seized was essentially commercially produced, commercially available material; is that right.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, there were -- when we talked about art books, there were a lot of art and photography books that you saw --
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: -- in the various places. And in the office as well, correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And Mr. Jackson is a performer and an artist; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: You're aware that his -- that his likeness is sought by photographers all over the world. Are you aware of that.
Karen Shepherd: No.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Are you aware that photographers send him their work on a regular basis with the hope that he'll let them photograph him and be his photographer.
Karen Shepherd: I'm not aware of that.
Mr. Sanger: None of the items that -- none of the items that you seized -- well, let me withdraw that for a second. I think I need to look at what you have up there. So may I approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Why don't I just take it all.
Karen Shepherd: Oh, okay.
Mr. Sanger: And then I don't have to keep coming back.
Mr. Sanger: Now, I think we talked about books and magazines as being commercially available, books and magazines being commercially available. That's also true of all the DVDs.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: They're something you can buy at the store, correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you conducted your part of this search on November 18th, 2003, correct.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you don't know what, if any of this, was there in the residence in February and March of 2003, correct.
Karen Shepherd: No.
Mr. Sanger: One of the items that you actually seized was shown in the picture, 65. G2445 27. And if I may, I'll put that back up here, which is there on that side there. Are you aware that that is a film that was shown on HBO.
Karen Shepherd: At the time that I seized it, I was not. But then I saw it, after the search warrant, on HBO.
Mr. Sanger: All right. May I have just a moment, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Let me ask just a few more questions based on what we were just discussing there. Do you recall the nature of the various art books that you saw. The other ones. Not the ones you seized.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And what was the nature of the art books that you saw.
Karen Shepherd: One of the books was -- contained children and --
Mr. Sanger: Other than the ones that you seized.
Karen Shepherd: Oh, other than the ones.
Mr. Sanger: Other than the ones, yes.
Karen Shepherd: The one that I do remember seeing in the office was -- I believe it was pictures of Marilyn Monroe.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Karen Shepherd: It was a memorabilia book. And that's -- there were a lot of books, so I don't remember a whole bunch of them off the top of my head.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Well, let's take the office for just a second. The office is in the building right next to the house itself, correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And the office itself has a room that you walk into. It might be, in some other circumstances, like a reception area; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then you go through a door, and the next door -- or the next room is what appears to be Mr. Jackson's private or personal office, with a desk and so on; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And in those offices, there are mannequins of various sorts; is that right.
Karen Shepherd: That's right.
Mr. Sanger: Some of them somewhat humorous.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Depending on your point of view, I suppose. All right. And there are also displays of various movie memorabilia and things from Disney, that sort of thing; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: As you go through the door into this first area that I called the reception area, for lack of a better term, if you go to the left there's a hallway; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And if you go all the way down to the end, there's a bathroom, right.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: But if you take a left from that hallway, there's an L-shaped room. It might be like a walk-in-closet-size sort of thing, correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And that's actually lined with bookcases, and there's hundreds, probably thousands of books in there; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then in Mr. Jackson's office itself, besides chairs and mannequins and memorabilia, there were stacks of books in different places, correct.
Karen Shepherd: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Now, do you recall seeing items in that office; for instance, a letter from President Bush.
Karen Shepherd: No.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Do you recall seeing letters or items from various other celebrities or personalities or --
Karen Shepherd: No.
Mr. Sanger: -- people of stature.
Karen Shepherd: I was assigned as a scribe in that area, so I didn't do any of the searching.
Mr. Sanger: So -- okay. So you didn't look through the materials that were there.
Karen Shepherd: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. But did you go in that room, that L-shaped room, and look at some of the books in there.
Karen Shepherd: I saw the L-shaped room. I noticed there was a lot of books and there was a lot of stuff in there.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did you notice that, as you just -- I understand you didn't search it per se, but did you notice that there was some books where there were multiple copies of the same book.
Karen Shepherd: No.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Back in the house, where you were going through the residence, did you focus your entire efforts in the master bathroom.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So you didn't go upstairs.
Karen Shepherd: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did you even walk upstairs to see what was --
Karen Shepherd: I did walk up, but I didn't search.
Mr. Sanger: So when you walked up and you saw upstairs, there was stacks of books and items stacked and lined up and in bookcases around that room; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: Stacks of -- I don't know if they were books. There was stacks of stuff everywhere.
Mr. Sanger: A lot of movie memorabilia.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: A lot of art type of books, photography type of books.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And downstairs, going back downstairs, did you go into the hallway and the bathroom areas on the right side of the -- of the room, if you were to face the big screen television.
Karen Shepherd: Yes, I walked through there.
Mr. Sanger: You walked through. You were not detailed to search that area, though; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: No.
Mr. Sanger: And did you notice that there was movie memorabilia there.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Things from Disney, again Shirley Temple, other regular commercial movies and that sort of thing.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And then in the main -- on the main floor, in the big room on the main floor with the big screen T.V., there were stacks of books on the floor right next to the television; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And again, there were books in a bookcase to the right, just before you went into the hallway before going up the stairs, correct.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And do you remember a piano there in the big room.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: The grand piano, the black one.
Karen Shepherd: Yes, I remember that.
Mr. Sanger: And there were -- there were some books and things that were sitting on that piano.
Karen Shepherd: There might have been.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And do you remember, behind the piano, there was an alcove there where there was bookcases with books.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, did you discern that in different areas, there were different themes, or did all the books seem to be pretty much mixed up.
Karen Shepherd: I didn't search through those books. I spent my time searching in the bathroom.
Mr. Sanger: But you did notice, when you were going through, a tremendous number of books in that whole area on the first floor were photography and art or entertainment kind of books; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: I can guess, assume so, yes. I didn't go through all of them.
Mr. Sanger: You didn't go through all of them, but what you saw --
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me, move to strike. Speculation. Use of the word “assume so”. Lack of foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Sanger: I don't want you to just assume. I realize you didn't go through every one, but as you picture it in your mind and as you looked at it at the time, did you notice there were a lot of books about movies and art and photography in this area.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And in the master bathroom area that you've described, there were a number of books about art and photography and entertainment.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And as we -- as I asked before, in addition, mixed in with that in this particular area, there were, from time to time, some other books on other issues, like history or current events, that sort of thing.
Karen Shepherd: There may have been. I don't remember seeing any.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did you go into the closet. There was a closet off that master bathroom, like a walk-in closet there.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And there were some books in there, were there not.
Karen Shepherd: Yes, a lot of books.
Mr. Sanger: Do you remember the subject matter of those books.
Karen Shepherd: No.
Mr. Sanger: Were you assigned to search that area as well.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: So in that master bathroom, with the books that we saw stacked up here and there, and the closet, those were two areas that you were searching. Were there any other areas that you searched.
Karen Shepherd: No, that's it.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So, just in that -- in those areas, how many books do you think there were.
Karen Shepherd: Hundreds. I --
Mr. Sanger: And of the hundreds, you seized the ones that you felt were appropriate; is that correct.
Karen Shepherd: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you. I have no further questions.
Mr. Sneddon: No questions, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down. All right. We'll recess until tomorrow morning, 8:30. See you then. Remember the admonitions.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, could the Court wait one moment as to one small detail.
Mr. Sanger: Remember, he asked.
Mr. Zonen: Two small details.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: All right. Go ahead.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, we've -- apparently the Court's in possession of the product of the subpoena duces tecum issued by the People for legal records relating to the 1993 matter in Mr. Feldman's office. I've asked counsel to think about whether they would agree to it being turned over to us for copying, and they're still debating the issue. If, in the event their position is “No”, we'd like the Court to set a time when we can argue it.
Mr. Oxman: Excuse me, Your Honor. On the subpoena, I think we would like to have time to determine what we want to do with it.
The Court: Yes, I'll give you time.
Mr. Oxman: Okay.
The Court: How much time do you want.
Mr. Zonen: The Court should know, they've known about it for a couple of days already.
Mr. Oxman: Would till Monday be acceptable.
The Court: Sure.
Mr. Zonen: Monday would be fine.
The Court: You have one other --
Mr. Sneddon: Short, I promise. I promised the Court and counsel and the clerk that I would find the rest of the exhibit that goes to -- there's a photograph we used, which is, I believe, 346, Madam Clerk. And these are the originals. And we were going to substitute. But if you would rather me just have them marked as a separate number, we could do that as well, Your Honor. I just wanted to make sure we have the originals in evidence.
The Clerk: That was 246.
Mr. Sneddon: 346, I'm sorry.
The Clerk: I'm sorry.
The Court: All right. Mr. Mesereau, is it all right if he substitutes the original of those notes for the copy and we leave the same number on them.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Mr. Mesereau.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, we had stipulated to make a copy of the cover of the Neverland Valley Guest Book --
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- which is Exhibit 5031, and we have made copies. With the Court's permission, we'll have them entered in evidence.
The Court: All right. Do you want the book itself to remain in evidence, or do you want to substitute the photos of the front for the --
Mr. Mesereau: We had agreed to use the front cover.
The Court: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: The prosecutor had objected to other pages of numerous writings, so at this point we may use the original further in our case.
The Court: Do you want to just leave it in right now and mark those at a different time.
Mr. Mesereau: Sure, if we could, Your Honor. Thank you very much.
Mr. Sneddon: That's acceptable, Your Honor.
The Court: What number would that be.
The Clerk: Would you want that an A and a B.
The Court: We'll put it under A under the --
Mr. Mesereau: Whatever the Court would like.
The Court: Under the number that the actual guest book is, we'll put those as an A. Is there two separate exhibits.
Mr. Mesereau: No, there's just one, Your Honor. That will be A, whatever number that is.
Mr. Sanger: Let me just address that. The book was withdrawn so we could make the cover, so we have to bring the book back.
Ms. Yu: Tomorrow.
The Court: That will be fine.
Mr. Sanger: We'll bring the book back.
The Court: You have enough witnesses through Friday. There's no problem.
Mr. Sneddon: You warned me. I'm not going to get chewed out. We'll make one up if we have to.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:35 p.m.
