Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Tuesday, March 29, 2005 8:30 a.m.
The Court: Good morning.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
Mr. Sanger: May I proceed? Thank you.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION Continued BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Good morning.
Robert Spinner: Good morning, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. We were, right at the end of the day, talking about exemplars. And the question about exemplars that I was getting to is, is it important in comparing an exemplar to a known print to determine if there are any dissimilarities?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir, there is.
Mr. Sanger: You can have quite a number of Galton points, or points that you identify as being identical, correct?
Robert Spinner: Among others, yes.
Mr. Sanger: And if you have an unexplained dissimilarity, then you have to reject the comparison; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So therefore, it's important to have a good exemplar, so you can see all of the features of the print, correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And it's also important to have a good latent print, if possible, to compare to the exemplar, correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir, that's correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. In other words, you -- you have what you have. Whatever shows up as a latent is what you get to compare, correct?
Robert Spinner: That's -- yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: But the more detail and the more of the print that you have, the better it is to compare to the exemplar, correct?
Robert Spinner: The more detail, the more positive the comparison.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, I think you told us that you were familiar with SWGFST; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, I read their guidelines.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And that is a working group which was created in the last few years to deal with fingerprint examination and comparison, correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. One of the things that has arisen in the latent print examiner community is a question of whether or not there are adequate validation studies to support fingerprint comparisons, correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And that's one of the things that SWGFST was formed to address?
Robert Spinner: I'm not sure whether they were formed to address the actual lack of a validation study, but they were formed to address latent fingerprint comparison in general.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, when you're looking at prints on paper, as you did in this case, there are some things that you can -- that you can tell from prints, obviously, and other things you can't, correct?
Robert Spinner: Depends how much of the print is available, that's a correct statement.
Mr. Sanger: And one of the things, though, that you can't tell from examining fingerprints is when the fingerprints were put on the object; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And if you have two sets of prints, for instance, on the same object, there is no way of telling which was placed before the other?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: So they could be placed at totally different times, they could be placed at the same time, they could be placed at different times that are close together; correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Or different times but far apart?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, did you have training from the Spex company, S-p-e-x?
Robert Spinner: No, I did not.
Mr. Sanger: And were you aware that the sheriff's department had arranged for training from the manufacturer of the Scenescope?
Robert Spinner: No, sir, I was not.
Mr. Sanger: Did you have any training on the Scenescope yourself?
Robert Spinner: No, sir, other than about ten minutes of brief information I got from Detective Lafferty.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And when did you obtain that information from Detective Lafferty?
Robert Spinner: I believe it was in August of 2004.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Were you advised by Detective Wittenbrock that it was not necessary to fume as extensively with super glue if you're using the Scenescope?
Robert Spinner: He may -- he made a comment once that he thought some of the pages were coming out a little heavy, and that we, at that point, pulled back about a minute on the super glue exposure timing.
Mr. Sanger: When you say “heavy”, the fuming process was then obscuring some of the detail on the prints; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That was his opinion, but I never got the same opinion from Detective Sutcliffe.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did you form an opinion yourself?
Robert Spinner: I never had a chance to really look. I relied on their feedback to adjust the gluing times if it became necessary.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I want to clear up a couple details. I'll make my way through here. Excuse me? May I approach the witness, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: These are in evidence.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I have put before you Exhibit 723, 726, and 748.
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And on direct examination you said that 748, if you put -- take 748. I think it's that one.
Robert Spinner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Can you hold that up - if that's all right with the Court. It's in evidence - so the jury can see it?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Just so we all know what we're talking about.
Mr. Sanger: 748 was a comparison board that showed your comparison of fingerprints, the exemplar to a latent print. And you testified on direct that that was the print, the image that was depicted in Exhibit 723. Would you pick up 723? That's not 723. That's 723. Okay. Looking at 723, does 748 depict the image in 723?
Robert Spinner: No, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. In fact, if you look at 726, that appears to be a similar image to 748; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct, sir.
Mr. Sanger: I take it, in fingerprint examination and comparison, it's extremely important to keep track of the exemplars and the latent prints; is that right?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: You don't want to be mixing prints up, otherwise it could cause all sorts of problems, right?
Robert Spinner: Yes, because you probably couldn't make an identification if you mixed them up.
Mr. Sanger: Would it cause problems if you mixed up your latent prints and your exemplar prints?
Robert Spinner: If things are not kept in the correct numerical order and name order, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, let's talk about -- a little bit about your training and experience. You had mentioned that you had -- this case accounted for, at one point you said about a quarter, and then you said maybe a fifth or a sixth of the total number of prints that you compared, correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And how long have you been a latent print examiner?
Robert Spinner: I started working with latent prints in 1987.
Mr. Sanger: Were you a latent print trainee for some period of time?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir, I worked under William Moore, who was a latent print examiner in our office at the time when I started. And that's when we also started working with CAL-ID Systems.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, Detective Moore, was he a detective or an I.D. tech?
Robert Spinner: He was a senior I.D. technician.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I.D. Tech Moore was somebody who had pretty much learned the job of being a latent print examiner on the job; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: I'm not sure where he got all his training. He was in the bureau when I got there, and he was filling the position of I.D. technician and doing latent print examinations, and he was the one that I started training under.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And how long did you train under I.D. Tech Moore?
Robert Spinner: Probably about eight years. He was in the office approximately eight or nine years before he retired.
Mr. Sanger: And during that period of time, did Mr. Moore do most of the latent print examination for the sheriff's department?
Robert Spinner: He did a great deal of the latent print exams. And also he was the CAL-ID Systems operator when it was installed.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Let's not go too far afield on that. But since you brought it up, CAL-ID is -- is that a computerized system to match prints?
Robert Spinner: It's a computerized -- yes, that's the simple definition, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And now you have some other systems like AFIS?
Robert Spinner: Well, that's what CAL-ID originally was, was an AFIS system. We have a second or third generation of searchers and submitters now.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. In any event, you did not use the AFIS system or the CAL-ID System here?
Robert Spinner: No, sir. We had supplied exemplars for the three individuals who we were doing the latent print comparisons against.
Mr. Sanger: So again, not to go too far afield, but just to understand what you said, the computer system is a way to take prints, latent prints, and see if you can find an exemplar somewhere in the system; is that right?
Robert Spinner: It's taking -- to clarify, it's taking an unknown print, run it through a set of computer matchers to determine if there's a match in the system.
Mr. Sanger: You could also take an exemplar print, a rolled print, and run it through the system, right?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir, you can.
Mr. Sanger: So if you arrest somebody and you want to see if their fingerprints match somebody else in the country, you could send it to the federal AFIS system to have a fingerprint search; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: No, we don't have that capability. We send it to Sacramento DOJ or Department of Justice. And I believe at that point it could be routed through the Department of Justice to the FBI I-AFIS.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And the FBI system is called “I-AFIS”?
Robert Spinner: That's correct, sir.
Mr. Sanger: So again, you could go to the state Department of Justice, and they may route it on to federal. But you have access, basically, to the whole fingerprint bank that exists in the country; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: In one form or another, yes, sir, we do.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, again, in this particular case, you weren't doing that, you were -- you were attempting to compare exemplar prints to latent prints that were found on these various objects?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, from -- in 1987, you started working with Mr. Moore. When did you become a latent print examiner as opposed to a latent print trainee?
Robert Spinner: I would suppose that I probably graduated into a journeyman in -- sometime in the early '90s. '91, '92, possibly.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, is that -- was there some official designation? Did you get a certificate, or a letter of recognition or something, or is it just a point that you get to where you feel you're an examiner as opposed to a trainee?
Robert Spinner: I believe it was a point where the other examiners in the office, Mr. Moore, and Doug Coleman was still there, they felt that I was sufficient in my job, that I could perform latent examinations and form conclusions.
Mr. Sanger: And Doug Coleman was also an I.D. tech; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: He worked for the Santa Barbara County Sheriff's Department about that time before moving to the Santa Maria Police Department.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. But he was an I.D. tech as opposed to a technician?
Robert Spinner: No, he was an I.D. technician also.
Mr. Sanger: Right. Now, I think you said on direct examination that you're not certified by any organization as a latent print examiner; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: You belong to the Southern California Association of Fingerprint Officers?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: That's a membership organization, right?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Send in your dues, and if you're a peace officer, you can belong to it; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: It's about -- it's more civilian than law enforcement officers or sworn officers. But it's -- you have to make an application, you have to go to three meetings. If anybody has an objection to your membership, you will not be installed. And after the third meeting, then you're installed. And then you're a member until you quit.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, you mentioned that I.D. Tech Moore and I.D. Tech Coleman had indicated that they felt you were ready to do examinations on your own at some point in the '90s; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: I think that's a correct statement, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Were you ever subjected to proficiency testing?
Robert Spinner: Not officially. However, every time we do a latent print examination we get a validation. That can be a form of proficiency testing.
Mr. Sanger: Sir, you know what I mean by “proficiency testing”, is that correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir. There are agencies which send in blind tests and then you do the tests and send it back and they're graded.
Mr. Sanger: Were you ever subject to proficiency testing?
Robert Spinner: No, sir.
Mr. Sanger: The Santa Barbara Sheriffs does not submit itself to proficiency testing in fingerprint examination; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And they're -- are you familiar with the agencies that do proficiency testing?
Robert Spinner: No, sir, I don't know any right now who are actually doing proficiency testing from personal knowledge.
Mr. Sanger: All right. You've indicated, though, that you have gone to a number of meetings and some training sessions with regard to latent print examination, correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And so you attempt to keep up with the literature, as it were, in the field; is that right?
Robert Spinner: As much as possible, yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And in the course of your training and experience, you're aware that the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration, the LEAA, federal agency, did proficiency testing; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: No, I'm not sure.
Mr. Sanger: Were you aware that Collaborative Testing Service, a private company, was contracted to do proficiency testing from 1995 to 2003?
Robert Spinner: I know they do proficiency testing. I don't know who they did it for or if they were ever contracted through anybody.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. In the course of your studies with regard to latent print examination, you're aware that the proficiency testing across the country turned up a number of misidentifications, a significant number, correct?
Mr. Nicola: I'm going to object, lack of foundation, Your Honor.
The Court: Foundation, sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Are you aware that there have been issues with regard to -- let's just take false positives coming up in proficiency testing in this country.
Robert Spinner: I don't know what the rate of any proficiency testing was per agency or per test, no, I don't.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And your agency doesn't have any percentage or rating because it doesn't submit to proficiency testing; correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, what I'm asking about, is you're aware in the proficiency testing, the blind testing that you have talked about, there have been a number of instances of false positives showing up; is that correct?
Mr. Nicola: Objection, lack of foundation, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Are you aware of whether or not -- are you aware of any results -- I'm not talking about the specific numerical results, but generally in your reading, in your training and experience, any results of the proficiency testing over the last few years?
Mr. Nicola: Objection, lack of foundation, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled.
Robert Spinner: The only tests that I am aware of --
The Court: Just a minute.
Robert Spinner: Excuse me.
The Court: There's a question that just requires a “yes” or “no” answer. Read the question back to him.
The Court Reporter: Are you aware of whether or not -- are you aware of any results -- I'm not talking about the specific numerical results, but generally in your reading, in your training and experience, any results of the proficiency testing over the last few years?
Robert Spinner: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And were you aware that false positives have shown up in that proficiency testing?
Robert Spinner: I can't remember if there were false positives brought up or whether it was just -- they just didn't send the test back. I know there was a problem.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, is this part of the problem -- or let me withdraw that. Is this problem that you just described part of the mission of SWGFST to try to remedy?
Mr. Nicola: I'm going to object as to vagueness, Your Honor.
Mr. Sanger: Let me rephrase it, because it was an odd sentence at best.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Sanger: Is SWGFST attempting to remedy problems associated with proficiency testing results?
Robert Spinner: I don't know.
Mr. Sanger: You're also aware that in the last five, six years, there have been a number of particularly notable cases in which there have been false positives; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: There was one in 1999 in Scotland involving a police officer by the name of Shirley McKee; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: I'm aware of that case, yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And that's a case where the Scotland criminal records office, which is their law enforcement or I.D. tech agency, formed an opinion that there was a positive match; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And the police officer, Miss McKee, was prosecuted for murder based on that print identification; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: No, I believe she was prosecuted for perjury.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And at the -- after the case was over, 170 other print examiners looked at the print and said they didn't match; is that right?
Robert Spinner: I know a great number looked at the print. I don't know the exact number. But almost everybody agreed that it did not match.
Mr. Sanger: Almost everybody in the Scottish records office to this day maintains that it's a positive I.D., correct?
Robert Spinner: That's my understanding.
Mr. Sanger: This is part of what you described as a subjective aspect of making print identifications, correct? In other words, people form an opinion, and that's the basis for a positive identification, correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, it's -- yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you're also aware of the case last year involving Brandon Mayfield; is that right?
Robert Spinner: That's correct, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Brandon Mayfield was a lawyer in Oregon, correct?
Robert Spinner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And he was placed in custody for two months based on a fingerprint identification, correct?
Robert Spinner: I thought it was two weeks. That was my reading.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Well, he was placed in custody long enough to be an interference with his life; is that correct?
Mr. Nicola: Objection. That's argumentative, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: He was placed in custody for some period of time?
Robert Spinner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And he was accused of being involved in the Madrid bombing; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And that was based on the FBI making a positive identification of his fingerprint on something associated with that bombing; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And they had three FBI fingerprint -- latent print examiners who compared the print and agreed that it was positive; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And they had -- they identified in excess of 16 points of identification; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: I don't think it was a number quite that high, but I don't know the exact number, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And eventually the Spanish police identified the fingerprint to an Al Qaeda member; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: I know they did identify it. I wasn't quite sure -- I don't know who they identified it to, but I believe it was somebody involved in an organization over there.
Mr. Sanger: And Mr. Mayfield -- it turns out at this point Mr. Mayfield had absolutely nothing to do with it; is that right?
Robert Spinner: I don't know if he did or not. I don't know if he was totally exonerated or whether he's still waiting.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. You're aware that the fingerprint -- you're aware that the FBI has indicated that they made a mistake and it was not his fingerprint, correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And they, in part, blamed it on digital imaging?
Robert Spinner: Initially, yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And then they changed that opinion about digital imaging after the fingerprint community became concerned that that would undermine digital comparisons, correct?
Robert Spinner: I don't know the answer to that question.
Mr. Sanger: You're also aware of Judge Pollack's decisions in the - I don't know how you say it - Llera Plaza -- it's L-l-e-r-a Plaza - case; is that correct? It's an Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
Robert Spinner: I know -- I read about Judge Pollack, but I don't recognize that particular case by that name.
Mr. Sanger: All right. In any event, there was a case in Pennsylvania that Judge Pollack had made a determination with regard to fingerprints, admissibility of fingerprints, correct?
Robert Spinner: In 1999, yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Are you aware of the opinions in January and March of 2002?
Mr. Nicola: Objection. Relevance and calls for hearsay.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer “yes” or “no”.
Robert Spinner: I can't say “yes” to that. I don't remember.
Mr. Sanger: All right. In any event, these matters that we talked about, Shirley McKee, the Mayfield, Judge Pollack's ruling, whenever it was, those have been the subject of conversations, debate and concern in the latent print examination community; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Now, you said that you had taken a couple of courses from Sergeant Ashbaugh; is that right?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: In fact, one course you took was actually in January of 2005, this year; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And Sergeant Ashbaugh is a sergeant with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: He coined the phrase “ridgeology”; is that right?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And actually wrote a book about ridgeology; is that right?
Robert Spinner: “Quantitative-Qualitative Friction Analysis”, yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And he calls it “ridgeology”?
Robert Spinner: That's what he calls the system.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And his -- without going into -- you can go into as much detail as you want, but without going into unnecessary detail, his theory is to get away from simply matching Galton points to do something more sophisticated in analyzing prints; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: The fingerprint community started getting away from just using strictly Level II detail or Galton points some time ago. What Mr. Ashbaugh said was that -- he coined the phrase “ridgeology” in an attempt to explain how latent fingerprint examiners do their work, because nobody had done this up to this time, because a lot more takes place in the latent fingerprint examination than just counting, as you say, Galton details.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So he was trying to explain how latent fingerprint examiners can come up with an opinion, an ultimate opinion, that there's either a positive identification, or there's no identification, or it's inconclusive; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: It all goes back to a couple basics, though. Whether you go back to Galton in 1886 or you talk about Sergeant Ashbaugh, the first thing you're talking about with fingerprints is the permanency?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: The idea that a fingerprint is permanent from birth to death absent some of the things you talked about, I mean mutilation, or something else, correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: The second is that two fingerprints -- no two fingerprints will be identical; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: The uniqueness theory, yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: So it's unique. Now, it turns out, based on experiences in the last few years in particular, that two prints can be quite similar, correct?
Robert Spinner: Two prints can be similar, but they cannot be the same.
Mr. Sanger: Well, that's the theory.
Robert Spinner: I think that's a proven fact over 100 years.
Mr. Sanger: In other words, over the last 100 years your position is that no two full prints have ever been found to be absolutely identical, right?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: But there are prints, you would agree, that match on numerous Galton points, or points of identification, and yet are not, in fact, from the same person, correct?
Robert Spinner: I have seen four match before. I found a dissimilarity. But there can be similarities, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Some of these cases involved quite a lot more than four points; is that right?
Robert Spinner: I'd have to see -- I have seen the Mayfield prints, and I -- I don't agree with the FBI's -- the number of prints they got. In fact, I would not even have done that examination, because I don't feel that the latent print is of enough quality to even deal with.
Mr. Sanger: And that's a point I was going to get to in just a minute, but let's pick it up right now. And that is, that you don't generally have a full print when you're dealing with latent prints to compare to the exemplar, correct?
Robert Spinner: Most of the time, no. But sometimes you get lucky and you do.
Mr. Sanger: In this particular case, the 19 prints that you have here, were any of them a full print?
Robert Spinner: Some of them were, yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. When you say “full”, it wasn't a rolled print?
Robert Spinner: It wasn't a rolled print. But if we have the pattern area, the delta area, the ridge flow behind the re-curves up from the core and down from the core, so we had quite a substantial portion of that print visible.
Mr. Sanger: So, what you're saying is if you had a partial print, but you thought it was a substantial partial print?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And we'll get to some of those in a second. Let's talk about the ACE-V process that Mr. Ashbaugh's talked about, and I believe you say you use; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: As far as I know, the basic -- the fingerprint community uses that methodology.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And when you're talking about ACE-V -- we've gone through it so I don't want to bore everybody to tears -- I'm hearing twittering behind me. It may be too late. (Laughter.)
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Mr. Sanger: But this is important, so we want to try to get through it as best we can. On the ACE-V, basically “A” is analysis?
Robert Spinner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: So you have to look at the big picture and see if there's anything there that would disqualify the latent print from comparison, correct?
Robert Spinner: You want to analyze the latent print for quality and quantity of detail and clarity, see whether it's even usable, how much detail is available in that particular latent print.
Mr. Sanger: And then you go to comparison, and that simply means that you compare the exemplar print to the latent print; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's a simplified version, yes.
Mr. Sanger: We're trying to be simple, but we can make it more complicated.
Robert Spinner: What you would do, you would find your target group in the latent print and see if it exists in the known print, and then work from the latent print to the known print.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, after you do all of that, you get to the “E”, which is evaluation, right?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And that's a subjective part, right?
Robert Spinner: No, that's still your objective part.
Mr. Sanger: Well, when you're comparing, during evaluation, that's when you form your opinion, right?
Robert Spinner: At the end, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So when you form your -- let's put it this way: At the end of the “E” part, evaluation, you form your opinion?
Robert Spinner: Okay, yes, sir, that's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And that's subjective?
Robert Spinner: Yes, based on what you found out during the objective form of the evaluation.
Mr. Sanger: So you're basically saying, “I got to call it, it's a ball or a strike. It's a positive or it's not”, right?
Robert Spinner: You're attempting to determine whether there is sufficient detail in the friction ridges and sequence and characteristics to individualize that particular print to your suspect or the person that you're comparing it to.
Mr. Sanger: And that is an opinion, correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And people's opinions can differ --
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: -- correct? And we've given some prominent examples of where opinions differ, right?
Robert Spinner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: In other words, you differ with the FBI on the Mayfield case, correct?
Robert Spinner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: I take it you didn't analyze it while he was still in custody, did you?
Robert Spinner: I saw that print initially a couple of months ago on the Internet.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So you weren't in a position to call them up, and say, “Hey, you guys screwed up on this”?
Robert Spinner: I'd like to have been, but, no.
Mr. Sanger: And in fact, in Santa Barbara, in this particular case, you decided to do this fingerprint analysis essentially in-house; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's what I was told to do, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And you could have -- I say “you”. Let me withdraw that. A determination could have been made by somebody in the chain of command from the District Attorney's Office down through the chain of command, somebody could have made a determination to send the prints out to be analyzed by some other agency, correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: The Department of Justice, California Department of Justice has latent print examiners, does it not?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you have in the past sent prints to the DOJ to do latent print comparison, have you not? When I say “you”, I mean your agency.
Robert Spinner: If we did, it was some time ago. I don't recall anything recently that we -- that I know that was sent to the Department of Justice.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. But you're aware that today and in the fall of last year, 2004, the Department of Justice would provide latent print analysis services at the request of the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And you could have sent the prints to the FBI; is that right?
Robert Spinner: I could have. But that option was most likely available. I don't know.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And again, I don't mean you personally. But if it was decided in the chain of command, somewhere from the District Attorney down through your chain of command, somebody could have made that request of the FBI; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: I would assume so.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Excuse me one second. Did you have any discussion with your superiors or colleagues about sending the prints in this case to the Department of Justice in Sacramento?
Robert Spinner: I, at one time, said it might be an option because of the volume of material that we were dealing with.
Mr. Sanger: I take it you were overruled or it was determined that would not happen?
Robert Spinner: As far as I know, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Were you involved in any discussions about sending the prints to the FBI?
Robert Spinner: No.
Mr. Sanger: Now, we had Dr. Cantu from the Secret Service come to court here a little while ago. Do you know him?
Robert Spinner: I met him a week ago, yes.
Mr. Sanger: He came out here to testify, and you had a chance to talk to him?
Robert Spinner: About the Scenescope, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Other than his coming out here to testify for this jury, did he have any other involvement or provide any other assistance to your office in evaluating the evidence in this case?
Robert Spinner: As far as I know, he did not.
Mr. Sanger: And I take it the United States Secret Service also had no role in this until Dr. Cantu came out to testify here; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That is my understanding.
Mr. Sanger: Now, I'm not going to go through everything, but what I'll do -- let me come over here. What I'm going to do, if the Court will permit me very loudly for just a moment, I'm going to hold up one of the boxes. Remember these boxes with the white notebooks?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And I think there were three or four of these boxes that you went through; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: I wasn't counting the boxes. I was looking at the magazines.
Mr. Sanger: All right. But you went through quite a number of these notebooks?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And after spending a couple of hours going through those boxes here for the Court, the fact of the matter is, that out of all of those boxes, there were 12 magazines from which you performed a comparison that resulted in your opinion that there was an identification; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: I'd have to look at my notes to count the number of magazines.
Mr. Sanger: Do you have your notes here?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir, I do. I have a sheet right here.
Mr. Sanger: Yes. Take a look at that.
Robert Spinner: That's correct, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And before you started going through each one of those, you knew which 12 were the 12 that you actually formed an opinion that there was a positive identification; is that correct?
Mr. Nicola: I object as to vague, Your Honor.
Mr. Sanger: The witness looks like he doesn't understand it, so let me rephrase it, Your Honor.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: In other words, before we started going through -- Mr. Nicola got up and went through each one of those binders one at a time?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Several boxes?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Before he did that, you would have been able to say, “Well, look, there's 12 of those binders in which there was a positive identification in my opinion”, would you not?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Nicola: Objection. What's the relevance to that question?
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sanger: Now, you testified on direct examination that you used Adobe Printshop to work with I.D. Tech Hemman in making comparisons of prints; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: The correct name of the program is Adobe Photoshop, and I.D. Tech Hemman was the computer operator.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. “Photoshop”.
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Sorry. That's undoubtedly very important to the Adobe company. All right. The point of the story is, as I understand it, you're saying that you were able to use two different layers; is that right?
Robert Spinner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And I think you referred to them as “layers”; is that right?
Robert Spinner: That's what they call them in the program, yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And so basically you can sit down, compare prints, find what you consider to be points of identification, and then you can leave, and I.D. Tech Hemman could come in and sit down and do the same thing and find points of identification, correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then you took your two layers and you compared your analysis with her analysis; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Did you both identify the exact same points on each fingerprint?
Robert Spinner: The exact same basic points were identified most. Sometimes she may have identified a point more than I did. Or I may have identified a point more than she did.
Mr. Sanger: And is it your testimony that you varied by one point on these fingerprint comparisons?
Robert Spinner: I don't know if exactly one. It could have been several, sometimes. Sometimes we were dead-on exact.
Mr. Sanger: So did you save the layers?
Robert Spinner: I believe they may still be in the computer in Santa Barbara.
Mr. Sanger: So you haven't printed them out or given them to the District Attorney or to defense counsel in this case?
Robert Spinner: No, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, you testified to a timeline, and I'm going to ask the clerk if she has that. I don't have the number written down right here. Do you have the timeline?
The Clerk: Mr. Nicola has that.
Mr. Sanger: Oh, Mr. Auchincloss has it. All right. That's 622.
Mr. Sanger: And your timeline -- Can I put this up, Your Honor? I believe it was received.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And let me see.
Mr. Sanger: Your timeline starts in January of -- the printed timeline starts in January of 2004, correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And you basically show your involvement commencing in August of 2004, correct?
Robert Spinner: That's when I first -- obtained the first piece of evidence, yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you're aware that the seizure of the evidence in this case was, for the most part, November 18th of 2003, correct?
Robert Spinner: That was my recollection from reading the newspapers. I wasn't working at that time.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Is that part of the time that you were retired?
Robert Spinner: I believe I may have been working as a part-time bailiff a day or two a week down in the Santa Barbara courts, or I was basically retired.
Mr. Sanger: There you go. But you were aware that the search in this case occurred November the 18th of 2003, right?
Robert Spinner: I was aware that there was a search warrant served, yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Were you aware that Detective Lafferty had viewed some of the evidence in this case that you ultimately did a latent print examination on?
Robert Spinner: No, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Were you aware that there was a -- well, let me ask you this: Did you review the reports of other officers?
Robert Spinner: No, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Not even people involved in -- in the print identification aspect of the case, preservation?
Robert Spinner: If I had a question, I went directly to the officer or the person involved and asked.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So were you aware that in December of 2003, that Detective Lafferty wrote a report requesting that the Forensics Bureau please do a fingerprint analysis of this same evidence?
Robert Spinner: No, I am not.
Mr. Sanger: Now, I understand that you were essentially retired and coming back and doing some part-time work during that period of time. But based on your training and experience working in the Forensics Bureau, when somebody makes a request, another officer makes a request for a fingerprint analysis, is that something that the Forensics Bureau is supposed to attend to?
Robert Spinner: The Forensics Unit is a more -- I would say is more of a reactionary unit than an offensive unit. So he would have run his request up the chain of command, and then it would be up to whoever's up making those decisions, and then decide how the unit was to proceed.
Mr. Sanger: Based on your experience -- forget about this case for a moment. Based on your experience, you said you worked other cases where there were fingerprints, correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And you actually did fingerprint analysis and comparison, correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And in cases where there are fingerprints on objects, or there may be fingerprints on objects that are seized, is it customary for somebody in law enforcement to say, “Preserve this so that it can be checked for prints”?
Robert Spinner: When prints -- I don't know how to answer this. Not all the time, no. It depends. It's up to the investigating officer as to what action he wants to take with his evidence, I guess would be a way to put it.
Mr. Sanger: All right. If an investigating officer looks at items out at the scene at the time of the seizure, and forms the opinion that somebody ought to check these things for prints, do you expect that to be communicated to the Forensics Unit?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir. Normally they would write up a work request on one of our forms. Send it in. The evidence would be booked in, and then we'd deal with it.
Mr. Sanger: And ordinarily that would occur very early in the proceedings, correct?
Robert Spinner: Sometimes -- this is the first time I've seen it where it's come up a year later.
Mr. Sanger: It came up a year later here, didn't it?
Mr. Nicola: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Other than this case, have you seen prints analyzed by your department a year later that were intended to be analyzed at the time the item was seized?
Robert Spinner: I did one two and a half years later, but I don't know what the intent was when it was seized. But sometimes there's a timeline that runs.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So I'm talking about a case where you're investigating out in the field, the lead detective or the detective assigned to seize the evidence, says, “Yeah, we better check that for prints”. Isn't it the policy and procedure of your office, the sheriff's office, to have those items sent to the Forensics Unit within a reasonably short period of time to do the print analysis?
Robert Spinner: Again, that's up to the investigator in charge of that particular case as to what time, when they want to run, or what they want to do, what tests, or what's done.
Mr. Sanger: And you would expect that there would be some request, there would be a forensic request; is that right? Let me withdraw that so we can be clear. There's a form that you have in your office that can be filled out by the lead detective, or whoever seizes the evidence, to request forensic analysis of an item of evidence; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did you see any such forms in this case?
Robert Spinner: I received a work form filled out in, I believe it was -- July was the date on it.
Mr. Sanger: July of 2004?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: So you did not see a forensic request for fingerprints that was dated before July of 2004; is that correct, sir? In this case.
Robert Spinner: No. And I had very little contact with the unit prior to July of 2004.
Mr. Sanger: I'm asking if you saw -- I'm not asking whether or not you had contact. The question is, did you see a forensic request form that was dated anytime prior to July of 2004?
Robert Spinner: No, sir, I did not.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Let me get the -- May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to show you 743, 744 and 745. You were looking at those. Can I put them right here?
Mr. Nicola: Sure.
Mr. Sanger: All right. You've got 743, 744, 745, and whose prints -- these are exemplar prints, correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And whose prints on are on which board?
Robert Spinner: Okay. On Item 743, we have Mr. Jackson's fingerprints. On Item 744, we have Star Arvizo's fingerprints. And on 745, we have Gavin Arvizo's fingerprints.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, you talked about basic class characteristics; that is, whorls, loops, and arches, correct?
Robert Spinner: Correct, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Can you tell us, with regard to 743, those fingerprints, what configuration do those fingerprints show?
Robert Spinner: Do you want me to read all ten off?
Mr. Sanger: You can do that.
Robert Spinner: Well, the right thumb is a right slant loop. The right index is a right slant loop.
The Court Reporter: Slow down, please.
Robert Spinner: Excuse me. The right middle is a right slant loop. The right ring is a right slant loop. The right little is the right slant loop. The left thumb is a left slant loop. The left index is an arch. The left middle is an arch. The left ring appears to be a central pocket loop whorl. And the left little is a left slant loop.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Go to 744. Now, that's the one where you've got two sets; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct, sir.
Mr. Sanger: So you're going to pick your best set and tell us from that, correct?
Robert Spinner: Okay. The right thumb is a right slant loop. The right index appears to be a left slant loop, or a tented arch. The right middle is a right slant loop. The right ring is a right slant loop. And the right little is a right slant loop. The left thumb is a left slant loop. The left index appears to be either a tented arch or a right slant loop. The left middle is a left slant loop. The left ring appears to be a left slant loop. And the left little appears to be a left slant loop, but they're somewhat hard to see.
Mr. Sanger: All right. All right. And then on 745?
Robert Spinner: On 745, the right thumb is a right slant loop. The right index is a left slant loop. The right middle is a right slant loop. The right ring is a right slant loop. And the right little appears to be a right slant loop. The left thumb is a left slant loop. The left index is a left slant loop. The left middle is a left slant loop. The left ring is a left slant loop. And the left little is a left slant loop.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So the predominant feature of all of the fingerprints and cards are that these fingers are looped fingerprints; is that correct? I think you said there were a couple on Mr. Jackson's where it was an arch or a tented arch.
Robert Spinner: Mr. Jackson has two arches and a central pocket loop whorl. I think everything else is a loop pattern.
Mr. Sanger: All of the exemplar prints, except for those, are loops, correct?
Robert Spinner: Appear to be, yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And what percentage of the population has looped fingerprints?
Robert Spinner: About 65 percent.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Your Honor, what I'd like to do is go to the Power Point version of the exhibits. And let me just see if I have the right number here. All right. What this should be -- You can have that back, if you want. I think you wanted it. With the Court's permission, I'm going to put up 758. And I'm not going to go through all of these. They're in evidence, and -- but just to do it quickly.
Mr. Sanger: This is No. 13 of the 19 cards; is that correct, sir?
Robert Spinner: It's from 317-YY. The exact number I'm not sure. Oh, 13 at the bottom, yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Down at the bottom. Basically, so we don't get any more confused than we need to, there are 19 of these cards?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And these are the 19 cards where you showed your comparisons, your points of comparison, and -- correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So I'm just taking this one. Now, if you look at 317-YY, if you look at the latent print that's contained in this exhibit, that is a partial print, correct?
Robert Spinner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And it appears that there may be some torquing or there may be actually another print involved in the latent; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: There's distortion and it could actually -- yes, there's distortion in the print, which has caused it to distort somewhat, yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, in order to rule out the dissimilarities, you have to account for the dissimilarities as distortion, correct?
Robert Spinner: There is a difference between a dissimilarity and a distortion.
Mr. Sanger: Precisely. And you have to make that determination, right?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Because if something doesn't look the same, putting it in very basic terms, it either is going to eliminate that print from the comparison, or you have to explain it as a distortion, correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir. But at the same time, you're looking for dissimilarities that come up in the wrong spot in regards to ridge flow and spatial alignment.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I'm going to go to 759. Now, here you have another partial print, 759. And it actually looks like whoever did the location of this print actually wrote over part of the ridge detail with a black marker; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: There is a black marker pen on the lower right of the latent print, yes. However, whether it obliterated any usable ridge detail, I'd have to examine that print closely to determine that.
Mr. Sanger: Now, either I'm looking at it backwards or something.
Robert Spinner: Lower left.
Mr. Sanger: Lower left and then across the top; is that right?
Robert Spinner: Correct. There's a ruler on the right side.
Mr. Sanger: And I'm going to go to 762, which I believe is that. Once again, there you have -- somebody has used a black marker pen to note the location of a print, and has actually obliterated a part of the latent print; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: They've marked through it. But, again, it doesn't appear that they have, for the most part, disturbed any usable friction ridge detail.
Mr. Sanger: Well -- and that's because the usable friction ridge detail is only what you can see. If you can't see under it, you don't know what's under there, right?
Robert Spinner: Well, in that blurred area on the right would be an unusable area anyway.
Mr. Sanger: Let's talk about that. The blurred area on the right is not shown in the exemplar print, correct? In other words, that is not identical to the exemplar print, the blurred area on the right?
Robert Spinner: I can't tell.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. As you look at it, you cannot identify it as being identical to the exemplar print, correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir, but -- go ahead.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And can you tell what caused the blurred area on the right?
Robert Spinner: It was probably either distortion, or there was a slippage when the print was laid on the paper, or something else touched the paper. Not knowing what exactly happened to this, I can only make some assumptions.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And similarly here on No. 764, there are some marks, striations, or whatever they are, at the top of the print that are not shown in the exemplar print, correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And you account for that as distortion; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That would be slippage at that point.
Mr. Sanger: And that's your assumption, is that that's slippage?
Robert Spinner: Yeah, it appears that the finger had touched the page and pulled down slightly, and then the rest of the finger sat down on the page, creating a latent fingerprint.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Okay, Your Honor, we can turn the screen off, if that's all right. All right. And I have no further questions at this time.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Nicola: Thank you, Your Honor. May I approach the witness, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. NICOLA:
Mr. Nicola: Detective Spinner, I'm going to approach you with Exhibit 726, Exhibit 748. Do you recall examining both of those exhibits on Friday?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. And during that examination, which I believe I conducted, did I ask you to check the fingerprint depicted in Exhibit 726 and compare it to the fingerprint board, which is Exhibit 748?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object as hearsay as to what was asked.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Nicola: Now, Defense Attorney Sanger showed you Exhibit 723 this morning.
Robert Spinner: Correct.
Mr. Nicola: Do you recall that?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Nicola: Do you recall ever being shown this exhibit during your testimony on Friday?
Robert Spinner: I don't believe I was, no.
Mr. Nicola: Could you take a look at Exhibit 723 and describe what it is for the jury, please?
Robert Spinner: Item 723 is a printout of the Power Point demonstration created by the sheriff's department for protocol for latent fingerprint processing.
Mr. Nicola: Would you flip through all the pages, please? Do you have a recollection whether you presented that information to the jury on Friday?
Robert Spinner: No, I did not.
Mr. Nicola: And when was the first time you were asked any questions about testifying as to that exhibit?
Robert Spinner: This morning.
Mr. Nicola: By Mr. Sanger?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Nicola: Do you recall ever pointing to a fingerprint in Exhibit 723 and saying, “Well, that's the same one that's in Exhibit 748”?
Robert Spinner: No, sir.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. I think what we'll do is try to work backwards. Your Honor, if I may have “Input No. 4”, please. Dim the lights, please. Thank you. I'm placing on the Elmo machine Exhibit No. 622. Now, Mr. Sanger asked you some questions about when and if you knew when a request for forensic testing came in regarding the magazine seized from the defendant's ranch.
Robert Spinner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object. Actually, that misstates the evidence. It was fingerprint examination.
Mr. Nicola: I believe he used the words “forensic testing”, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection's overruled.
Mr. Nicola: Does forensic testing include sending items out for DNA analysis?
Robert Spinner: Yes, it does.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. And in the grand scheme of things, if you were going to do a DNA analysis on the same magazines that you would later check for fingerprints, which analysis would be conducted first?
Robert Spinner: The DNA analysis.
Mr. Nicola: And why is that?
Robert Spinner: Because the testing process for fingerprints and the development process could contaminate or destroy possibly any DNA.
Mr. Nicola: And by “contaminate” what do you mean?
Robert Spinner: Possibly alter the structure. Since ultraviolet light was being used, it could have damaged the DNA.
Mr. Nicola: And is contamination essentially destruction?
Robert Spinner: It can be.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. With respect to fingerprint analysis, if you contaminate a fingerprint, what have you done for its usefulness as a print that you can make any conclusions about?
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object. That's vague as phrased.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Nicola: Let me reask. With respect to a fingerprint, if you contaminate it, what have you done to its usefulness?
Robert Spinner: It could possibly make it unusable.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. And what kind of -- forms of contamination can affect a fingerprint in that respect?
Robert Spinner: Any activity which would destroy the ridge detail or blur the ridge detail so it could not be observed or traced or used for a latent comparison purpose. Cloud the clarity of the print.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. With respect to the DNA testing, do you have experience sending items to the Department of Justice laboratory in Goleta for that very purpose?
Robert Spinner: I have sent a few out, but it's been several years.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. In your experience, does DNA testing or screening from potential DNA testing take some period of time?
Robert Spinner: To my recollection --
Mr. Sanger: Objection; lack of foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Nicola: Sergeant Spinner.
Robert Spinner: Yes.
The Court: The objection was sustained.
Mr. Nicola: Do you have knowledge of how long the items that you've sent to the Department of Justice for DNA testing have taken to come back?
Mr. Sanger: Objection, lack of foundation and relevance.
The Court: The foundation objection is sustained.
Mr. Nicola: You have sent items to the DNA lab in Goleta, correct, for testing?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. Next question.
Mr. Nicola: You requested that DNA examination be done on the items that you've sent?
Robert Spinner: We sent items to the DOJ at the request of detectives for DNA analysis.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. And in your experience, do you find the turnaround time for when you receive the items back to be a long period or a short period?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Vague and lack of foundation, relevance to this case.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Robert Spinner: Depending on which lab was used, it could take quite some time.
Mr. Nicola: With respect to the magazines and other sexually explicit content that you were asked to conduct fingerprint experiments, or fingerprint examinations on, do you know whether any of those items had been sent to DOJ in early February of 2004 for DNA testing?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. This was asked and answered on direct. Beyond the scope.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Nicola: You may answer.
Robert Spinner: I knew that items were at the DOJ lab for testing. I don't know when they were actually sent out.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. So you knew the time frame they had been sent out was --
Robert Spinner: Prior to my attempting to --
Mr. Sanger: Excuse me. I'm going to object. It's not a question. No question pending.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Nicola: Okay.
The Court: Let's take our morning break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Counsel? Go ahead.
Mr. Nicola: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Nicola: It's still morning. Just a few more questions, Sergeant Spinner. With respect to the 19 fingerprint comparisons that you've testified to in court over the past few days, was there anything about the exemplars which prevented you from making the specific positive identifications that you've testified in front of the jury about?
Robert Spinner: No, sir.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. And I believe Mr. Sanger asked you whether you had sent the fingerprints out for independent verification. Did you, in fact, do that?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Nicola: And whom did you send those prints to?
Robert Spinner: Mr. Pat Wertheim.
Mr. Nicola: Who is he?
Robert Spinner: He's an internationally recognized fingerprint expert. He basically started the McKee case in Scotland when he recognized the bad fingerprint comparison which was conducted by the Scotland office. And he's on the SWGFST committee. And he is a very learned individual, and I consider him a mentor and a teacher.
Mr. Nicola: Did he verify the 19 results that you've testified to in court?
Robert Spinner: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Calls for hearsay; move to strike.
The Court: Sustained. It's stricken.
Mr. Nicola: Did he disagree with any of your comparison work?
Mr. Sanger: Objection; calls for hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Nicola: Typically in a fingerprint case, the defense has the opportunity to reexamine any of the work that you've done by their own experts, correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Nicola: I have no further questions.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Just a few things. You talked about 723 and 748. And it's your position that 723 is not the fingerprint depicted in Exhibit 748, right?
Robert Spinner: If I remember correctly, 723 is not a fingerprint exhibit.
Mr. Sanger: Right. So if you testified to that earlier, that would have been a mistake on your part, correct?
Mr. Nicola: Objection. That question assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And you indicated that your experience involved 80,000 fingerprints, and then you said, “Well, it may have been 120,000”. That's a 50 percent increase in the number of fingerprints.
Mr. Nicola: Objection. Beyond the scope of redirect and it's argumentative.
The Court: Sustained on beyond the scope.
Mr. Sanger: Now, you talked about DNA testing. My understanding is that you haven't sent anything out for DNA testing yourself for a number of years, correct?
Robert Spinner: The last time I was involved with sending anything out for DNA testing was prior to August of 2003.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So you don't know how long DNA testing -- let me withdraw that. You don't even know what DNA testing was done in this case, if any, correct?
Robert Spinner: I do know that some items were sent to the Goleta DOJ lab.
Mr. Sanger: Do you know what testing was done?
Robert Spinner: They were sent for DNA analysis, as far as I know.
Mr. Sanger: But you don't know what testing was done?
Robert Spinner: No, I do not know what DOJ did with those items.
Mr. Sanger: And you don't know for how long they held them and for what reason?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Now, Exhibit 470, I'll just hold it up here. Exhibit 470 is that briefcase, right?
Robert Spinner: That's correct, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And the items that you formed an opinion on involving your opinion that the prints were from Gavin and Star Arvizo, all were derived from this briefcase; is that correct?
Mr. Nicola: Objection. Misstates the evidence; lack of foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Robert Spinner: Part of the items came -- of the prints that were made came from the items that we got back from Department of Justice on 8-3. And the rest of them, I believe, came out of the black briefcase, which I got on 10-5.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. They were all 317, correct?
Robert Spinner: They were all 317, yes.
Mr. Sanger: So your understanding is, based on your experience in your office, that they're all Item No. 317. They would have come out of Item No. 317, right?
Robert Spinner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And this briefcase was Item No. 317. It's now Exhibit 470, but it was Sheriff's Item 317, right?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And you have no way of knowing if and when or whether or not Star or Gavin Arvizo opened this briefcase and looked through it, do you?
Robert Spinner: I have no knowledge what happened to that briefcase prior to 10-5.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I have no further questions.
The Court: Anything else?
Mr. Nicola: No, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down. Call your next witness.
Mr. Zonen: We'll call Jamie Masada to the stand.
The Court: Come to the front of the courtroom, please. When you get up to the witness stand here, please remain standing. When you get to the witness stand, face the clerk and raise your right hand.
Message: JAMIE MASADA Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Jamie Masada: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Jamie Masada: My name is Jamie, J-a-m-i-e; and my last name is Masada, M-a-s-a-d-a.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Masada, good morning.
Jamie Masada: Good morning, sir.
Mr. Zonen: What do you do for a living?
Jamie Masada: I do -- I have a Laugh Factory Comedy Club.
Bailiff Cortez: Sir, I need you to speak into the microphone.
Jamie Masada: Oh, I'm sorry, I apologize.
Mr. Zonen: We have to do this with everyone.
Jamie Masada: I'm sorry, I apologize. I own The Laugh Factory Comedy Club. And I do a couple of different kind of charities. I'm involved with different charities to help kids and homeless people and different stuff.
Mr. Zonen: Let's start with The Laugh Factory. What is The Laugh Factory?
Jamie Masada: The Laugh Factory, sir, is a comedy club that some of the people, well-known comic or unknown comic, they come up there, they get their break. And we bring studio people, or somebody come see them and look at them. Maybe some of them, they have a talent, they get a break on, they become famous. And it's people that come in, ordinary people that come, they pay admission to come in to watch the talent.
Mr. Zonen: How many Laugh Factories do you have now?
Jamie Masada: I have -- I did have another one in Hawaii, closed for temporary. Right now two, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. One is in New York City?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: And the one in Hawaii is temporarily closed?
Jamie Masada: Yes, because of the hotel remodeling.
Mr. Zonen: Where in Hawaii is it?
Jamie Masada: In Waikiki.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Now, the original one is the one in Los Angeles; is that correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: When did you open The Laugh Factory in Los Angeles?
Jamie Masada: 1979.
Mr. Zonen: How did that come about? How did you come up with such an idea?
Jamie Masada: Oh, God. Okay. Let's see where I can start. It was -- at that point I was a comedian. There was a strike going on about comedian. And the comedian that wasn't getting paid. And one of the comedian, John, from the Hyatt House, jump down, and he actually kill himself. And I was very disturbed and upset. And I thought, I got to do something. So at that point, I walking down the street and I saw a place for lease, and -- I find that place, and I came up with the name “Laugh Factory”. I started Laugh Factory, and it was the first club where I paid the comedians.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Masada, how old were you when you leased that space and opened The Laugh Factory?
Jamie Masada: I wasn't even 16. I put it under name of Neil Israel at that point, because he was -- he backed me up and he was the person -- he actually --
Mr. Zonen: You were 16 years old?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir. About almost 17, and a half, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you actually speak English at the time?
Jamie Masada: I don't know. I'm still -- I think I still am not speaking that good English anyway. (Laughter.)
Mr. Zonen: When you came to this country, did you speak English?
Jamie Masada: Not much. “Hello, how are you?” That's about it.
Mr. Zonen: How old were you when you came to this country?
Jamie Masada: 14.
Mr. Zonen: From where?
Jamie Masada: Directly from Israel. Iran, Israel and here.
Mr. Zonen: And to the United States?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Excuse me. Tell us what the comedy camp is. Well, before I do that, let me go back to The Laugh Factory.
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: It has been in existence for a number of years now?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Would it be safe to say that a number of well-known comedians have passed through The Laugh Factory?
Jamie Masada: I mean, the number of well-known comedians, they still come through The Laugh Factory all the time.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us who. Who are some of the guests who have come through The Laugh Factory?
Jamie Masada: Last couple of weeks, Jon Levitz. Chris Rock. Robin Williams. I could name many, many people that come.
Mr. Zonen: Name a few more.
Jamie Masada: Bob Saget. Chris Tucker. God, George Lopez sometime. Paul Rodriguez. Paul Mooney. They all stop by.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Now, tell me about the comedy camp. What is that?
Jamie Masada: The comedy camp is for underprivileged kids, the kids that they don't -- the kids that are disturbed or underprivileged, and that's how I created for.
Mr. Zonen: And what is it?
Jamie Masada: It's bringing the kid in, and bringing -- asking all of the well-known comedian to come in to teach them a little bit of confidence and give them a little bit of confidence through life. Some of them, they might become a comedian. Some of them might not become a comedian. But you give them confidence. You give them this big star teaching them how to perform, how to go through life and be confident in life.
Mr. Zonen: Are these principally underprivileged children?
Jamie Masada: Most of them underprivileged children, yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: And what does that mean? I mean, what is the criteria for somebody to get into the comedy camp?
Jamie Masada: If -- you know, if I see the kid, for example, they are shy, they don't have -- they cannot -- like, they don't have ability to talk in public. Or I see people that they really come from very poor family, or single family, or -- most of them they come out there, they don't even have family. They are living in group home. They live -- stay in foster homes. And that's the type of kid we get in comedy. But sometime, you know, you get a few of them that they are -- you know, they are -- what you call them? They're talented and they're kids, and their parents push them in, and you bring them in, and they are -- you know, we don't -- we overlook that they are not poor. But most of them, they are underprivileged people.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Do you do the evaluation to decide who gets into the comedy camp?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Do you meet with every child who comes through the comedy camp?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Have you maintained relationships with many children who have passed through the comedy camp?
Jamie Masada: Most of the time. Yeah, most of them. Some of them, all of a sudden I don't hear from them. But 90 percent of the kids always talk to -- they call me back anytime they are in trouble or anytime they are in any kind of problem, they call me. They ask me for help, you know. I mean, like last night before coming here, one of the kids, you know, has -- he walked out of the foster home, and he comes by, you know, the place. And he was -- I don't know if he was on drugs, whatever, whatever. You try to help him out. You try to give him direction. Give him a little bit of financial. “Hey, you got to go back. If you don't go back to your foster home, you're going to get arrested”, that type of stuff.
Mr. Zonen: Tell me how the comedy camp is structured. A child who comes into the camp, how often do they come? How regularly? Who do they work with? What do they do?
Jamie Masada: Most of the kids that come to the comedy camp, the structure of the comedy camp is we usually take about 30, 40, maybe -- sometime if -- we have none; sometime have gone over 40 kids; 45, 48 kids. And they usually come in, a lot of them come in from Los Angeles County Department of Children Family Services. They bring a lot of kids that they need they help. They bring them to me. And they usually -- the comedy camp meet once a week, on Saturdays. We provide them lunch, and they get -- I call some of the people that -- one of my greatest -- one of the best person was coming to comedy camp that always encourage a lot of kids, it was Richard Pryor. He would come in always. He was one of the greatest. He came in, and he always encouraged kids. And he encouraged that. He came from a whorehouse. “Look at what I made, what I made of myself. You guys can do the same thing”.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Masada, how many kids do you think have gone through the comedy camp since you founded it?
Jamie Masada: I think around -- I am not sure. I think over 400; 400 people.
Mr. Zonen: Is there actually a graduation ceremony of sorts?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: What do you do?
Jamie Masada: We prepare the comedian -- we take the kids, we gave them to one of -- another comedian, well-known comedian. Well-known comedian take that kid and coach them in last few days. And then we have a night, and we going to try in front of real audience. They go on, and they get paid for it, and they become a real comedian. They get a flag. They get gifts. They get -- a lot of stuff they get. And they are very cheerful. We have a cake for them. And it's kind of like a little ceremony, our own ceremony.
Mr. Zonen: Do kids stand up and do a comedy routine?
Jamie Masada: Yes, they do.
Mr. Zonen: For how long? How many minutes do they get to be up there?
Jamie Masada: They usually do three minute. Sometimes the kid is very, very talented. I seen them, they go on as much as seven, eight, ten minutes. I mean, it depends on the kid, how much talent it is. And we try to teach them -- they have a little light. We have a red light we give them. And if the red light goes on, they got to get off, and sometimes they don't see it.
Mr. Zonen: Do they write their own material?
Jamie Masada: They usually write their own material. Except celebrity type of comic help them out last few days, help them out to, say, punch up their lines or punch up their material.
Mr. Zonen: Are they encouraged to do material that they're familiar with, things about themselves or their lives?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir. We are always encourage them to talk about the pain, because I -- personally, I believe laughter is the healing. Laughter is, you know, something that could heal, and it could -- I work with a Norman Cousins quote, and he wrote a book called “Laughter is the Best Medicine”, and I believe in that. I believe in, because this kid, they never got a chance to be a kid. So I think by expressing themself and talking about the pain they going through, they heal the whole thing. And that's -- that's what's comedy camp.
Mr. Zonen: The child who enters the comedy camp will come how many weeks before graduation?
Jamie Masada: Ten to twelve weeks, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Is it always during the summer, or is it year-round?
Jamie Masada: No, it's always in the summer.
Mr. Zonen: And what day of the week is it that they come?
Jamie Masada: Saturday, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Do they ever come on a Monday?
Jamie Masada: No. They come in maybe -- on Monday they come in if it's -- for example, a celebrity want to meet with them on Monday before graduation.
Mr. Zonen: Uh-huh.
Jamie Masada: They might do that --
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Jamie Masada: -- on Monday, coming in. For example, some big celebrity comes in and said, “I don't have to come in -- I don't have time to come in on Saturday or Sunday, but I'll meet you Monday. Let's go over material in the club and I help you out”. That has happened.
Mr. Zonen: Do you try to make sure that a celebrity is with every child?
Jamie Masada: Define what's the “celebrity”.
Mr. Zonen: Somebody who's a working, practicing stand-up comedian, earns a living doing that.
Jamie Masada: Yes, the person making a living out of it, yes. I try to find some people that they are mostly, you know, known.
Mr. Zonen: So it is, in effect, a mentorship of sorts?
Jamie Masada: Some type, yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know the Arvizo family?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir, I do.
Mr. Zonen: And how did you become familiar with the Arvizo family?
Jamie Masada: I think, if I'm not mistaken, the first time I met Arvizo family was -- was the first time we had a comedy camp at the club. And I believe, if I'm not mistaken, is a gentleman called Eric Site. He was from Los Angeles County Dis -- the Los Angeles County Children and Family Services. He recommend them, or teacher recommended to him, and he brought them in, or he told the mother to bring them in, and they came in. And the first time I met them, they went on the stage and I watched them, what they doing, what's going on. And it was at that point was I believe on the time that I was doing interview. Eric Site was present, a lady called Julia Now was present. It was Robert Harper was present. It was Jo-Jo was present.
Mr. Zonen: Who are you talking about? These are people who evaluated their entry?
Jamie Masada: These are the people that sit back watching and seeing it. And it's a gentleman called Patrick Press (sic) from FOX TV was there that year, was doing a -- what you call -- was doing a documentary about comedy camp. His name is Patrick Press (sic). And he was with his filmmaker, with a cameraman.
Mr. Zonen: Did you interview the Arvizo family to determine whether they should come into the camp?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And how many kids were there?
Jamie Masada: Three.
Mr. Zonen: Can you name them for us?
Jamie Masada: Yes. It was Star. It was Davellin. It was Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did you meet their mother?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And what is her name?
Jamie Masada: Janet.
Mr. Zonen: Did these kids come for the entire camp academy, from the beginning to the end, and graduate?
Jamie Masada: I think they came in except one time, as I recall, because they did not have enough money to get bus to come in. They were coming in with bus.
Mr. Zonen: Coming with what?
Jamie Masada: Except one time they did not have money, or something to get the bus to come in.
Mr. Zonen: Oh, take the bus.
Jamie Masada: Take the bus to come in.
Mr. Zonen: So you think they may have missed one session?
Jamie Masada: I think I -- may I take some water, if you don't mind? I'm sorry. I've got a cold. I'm trying --
Mr. Zonen: You're not alone.
Jamie Masada: If you wanted some Cold-Eze, I have some Cold-Eze for you. (Laughter.)
Jamie Masada: All right, sir.
Mr. Zonen: As long as we don't give it to the jury.
Jamie Masada: No, I won't. I'm sorry, I'll talk this way. I'm not talking that way, I'm sorry.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Masada, was it your understanding that they would commute each time they came to The Laugh Factory by public transportation or by bus?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: And on each of those occasions, did Janet Arvizo bring the three children there?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Did you get to know them during the period of time that they were at The Laugh Factory comedy camp?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you develop a friendship or closeness with any of the children?
Jamie Masada: I usually -- you know, all of them, I look at them the same way. You know, I don't look at one kid is better than another kid. You know, all of them, to me, they were all like my own kids. So all 38, 40 of them, whatever were there, all of them -- I looked at them the same way. I didn't make special effort to be more friendly with them than the other different people.
Mr. Zonen: What year was the academy that they went to, the comedy camp that they went to?
Jamie Masada: The Laugh Factory comedy camp was on 1999.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have a sense of how old the children were when they went?
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us.
Jamie Masada: I believe one of the kids was eight. One of them was nine. One -- no, one of them was eight. One of them was nine. One of them was 13.
Mr. Zonen: 13 being the daughter?
Jamie Masada: The daughter. Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: And who was eight and who was nine? Do you remember who was older?
Jamie Masada: Yeah, I believe Gavin was nine. Star was eight.
Mr. Zonen: All right. At some point in time, did you learn that one of the children became ill?
Jamie Masada: Not after I heard -- they graduated. Everything went perfect. The documentary was on FOX TV. Everything was perfect. Then I keep in touch, you know, for their birthday, or giving something, or if they need some money, or anybody needs something, they always call me they need some help. And the next time I heard, I was keeping contact with them, the mother called me, said that Gavin have cancer, and he's sick, he's ill. And I kind of was in shock. “What's happened? What's going on? Where we going?” “Tomorrow we going to see another doctor”, this, this. They call me. I don't know when I was called. And then I got another call that they going to go operate. I said, “When they go operate?” They said such and such. And I said, “I'll be there”.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Masada, who was it who called you?
Jamie Masada: Janet.
Mr. Zonen: Did she ask anything of you, any favor of you, or ask you to do anything on her behalf?
Jamie Masada: Yes, she did.
Mr. Zonen: What was that?
Jamie Masada: She said I should pray. She ask me if I can pray, and thank you for all of the help I did. If I can pray. And I said, “Okay, I'll go to church tomorrow and do some prayer”.
Mr. Zonen: And did you go visit Gavin at the hospital?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I was there the time they operate, and I went there every day afterwards.
Mr. Zonen: Who was Gavin's mentor while he was at the comedy camp?
Jamie Masada: God, the time -- the graduation you mean?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Jamie Masada: Or the time -- or the whole thing?
Mr. Zonen: If there was more than one, tell us.
Jamie Masada: Oh, yeah, there was -- I believe, if I'm not mistaken, Paul Rodriguez was one of them. Bob Saget was one of them. Rob Schneider was one of them. Eddie Griffin was one of them. Dave Chappell was one of them. Oh, God. Let me think. My memory is not that great. Forgive me. Especially cold. Who else was -- I believe Howie Mandell was one of them. And who else was it? Come on. Paul Mooney was one of them. Oh, God, come on. How many did I call? How many names I say?
Mr. Zonen: Well, let me ask it this way. You've mentioned a whole bunch of names. Are these people that came in during the course of the entire camp?
Jamie Masada: Yes, they came through the whole camp. And each time they came in, they become a mentor to them for that week.
Mr. Zonen: Oh, I see. Okay. Do you know if there was one in particular that worked with the Arvizo children on more than one week?
Jamie Masada: Oh, yeah, George Lopez.
Mr. Zonen: George Lopez?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I'm sorry.
Mr. Zonen: And you do recall that at this time?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir, I do.
Mr. Zonen: When you went to see Gavin at the hospital the first time, how did you find him? I mean, in what condition did you find him?
Jamie Masada: I -- oh, God. After operation or before operation?
Mr. Zonen: When was the first time? Before the operation or after?
Jamie Masada: Before operation. He was -- he was kind of like a -- his stomach was big. He was yellow, and his -- he looked like a -- very, very sick, like something was -- you know, all with -- his face was all white and yellow. He had no color in the face. And after operation, I kept on going, and -- oooh, God, don't bring that memory back. I kept on going. And anytime I go up there, I see a poor kid every day, he's deteriorating. All of a sudden, I see he lost his hair, because they were -- you know, after a while they -- the operation and everything, they gave him chemo. And all of a sudden he lost his hair. He kept on losing weight. I think -- I'm -- without exaggeration, I think he was -- one time he was -- weighed about 60, 65 pounds. He was bone and skin. And then I would watch. I would go every morning, I would take some doughnut for the nurses up there and to go see them, and to see her -- to see him every day, every morning. And he was deteriorating to the point of -- it was unbelievable. I would go there, I would walk out tear in my eyes, because I didn't know what to do. What do you do with a kid like that? And at one point --
Mr. Mesereau: I'm going to object to the narrative.
The Court: Sustained.
Jamie Masada: I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Mr. Zonen: Let me move on.
Jamie Masada: What did I do wrong?
Mr. Zonen: We have our own rules here. It's a little bit different.
Mr. Zonen: When -- you were visiting him on a regular basis; is that right?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir. Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Would you bring things for him?
Jamie Masada: I would -- I don't -- I'm not very good -- I'm sorry. I'm not very good with giving gifts. And I give them financial. You know, I go up there, “Hey, if you eat, for example, today, if you eat, if you keep what you doing, I give you 50 bucks”. This, this. I kept on encouraging to give them. “If you save your money, I put all of your money together. When you get better, me and you, we go shopping. Here's $50. Here's that, that”. I give him every week some money, a $50 bill.
Mr. Zonen: A $50 bill?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Did you do that more than once?
Jamie Masada: Oh, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: How many times do you think you gave him $50 bills?
Jamie Masada: Oh, God, I think about six, seven times.
Mr. Zonen: Was encouraging him to eat an important thing at that time?
Jamie Masada: Yeah, the doctor -- one time, the doctor -- you got to picture, this kid is dying. The doctor told me he has two, three weeks to live. So me, I was trying to do everything I can in my power. And the doctor told me, “He's -- he's -- right now, he's deteriorating. If he don't eat anything, if he doesn't” -- they were feeding him food from his wing. “And if he doesn't eat, if he doesn't eat - encourage him - he's going to die”. So what I would do every morning, I would have a comedian with me, different comic every morning, different comic would go with me and cheer him up, tell him a joke. And beside that, I would go up there in the hospital, I tried to give him food, you know, to eat, to feed him.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Masada, you really grabbed comedians out of the club, took them to the hospital and said, “Start telling him jokes”?
Jamie Masada: Yeah, I --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
Jamie Masada: What did I do now?
The Court: It's not leading. But it's something. I'll sustain it. (Laughter.)
Jamie Masada: I'm sorry. Did you say something to me?
The Court: It's not to you, no.
Jamie Masada: No? I'm okay?
The Court: I'm talking to the attorneys.
Jamie Masada: All right.
Mr. Zonen: Would you like me to do that differently?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us how you did that, please. Tell us what you did with comedians.
Jamie Masada: A comedian always have -- say Bob Marley, Dane Cook, Frazier, me, I say to any of them, “Guys, meet me in the morning. We got to go to” -- each one of them, they would -- wake them up in the morning, I would drag them with me to the hospital. And they would go up, and just kind of make a little scene for him, “Bah, bah-bah”, whatever he did, little joke, like a clown, make a little smile on his face. That's what we tried to do.
Mr. Zonen: Did this go on for months?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Did you give him other gifts during that time?
Jamie Masada: Not -- not gifts. The example, I give him money, you know how I give him money all the time.
Mr. Zonen: Was there a point when he was well enough to go home and then begin the chemotherapy treatments?
Jamie Masada: No, he would -- he didn't go home right away. It was sometime we were trying -- you know, one time, point, it was almost that he was dying and he's -- you know, we were trying to feed him food. And his mouth -- because he was taking chemotherapy, when you take chemotherapy, your mouth is all bleeding. It's like your skin in mouth is gone. You -- your mouth has no skin or anything go in your mouth, it's like bleeding. So I was encouraging, trying to give him ice cream. I chopped -- what they call it? -- cantaloupe in his mouth. “If you eat, I'll do this, I'll do this, I'll do that”. And I keep on encouraging him for different stuff to eat. And I do anything I could do, clowning around, doing anything I can to make him eat. At one point he --
Mr. Zonen: Mr. --
Jamie Masada: I'm sorry. At one point he had an O negative blood, too.
Mr. Zonen: That's what I was going ask you.
Jamie Masada: Oh.
Mr. Zonen: Did you commence a blood drive or do something to facilitate a blood drive?
Jamie Masada: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: What did you do?
Jamie Masada: He had O negative, I heard, from -- what's the name of that, the blood drive that they do? The blood drive. It's not Salvation Army. No, what's the blood drive? Come on. Red Cross.
Mr. Zonen: Red Cross?
Jamie Masada: I'm sorry. Red Cross. I heard from Red Cross that they were -- didn't have enough blood, blood for him. So what I did, I put on my marquee, I put the sign on the door, “Anybody go give blood to the kids, they can come in and get -- come in the club, get free in the club”, and they get food free. The people, they went -- actually, I have like a one night of like a gathering for them. They come to the club and they have everything on the -- I have some good comedians, watch good comedians, all of them, for me to encourage people to go give blood. And one time Red Cross came in the club actually and they did a blood drive in the club. At the time we encourage people, comedian, go on the stage, tell jokes at the time the people give blood. So we got creative. And I encourage -- and I got a couple of radio station and a couple of T.V. station. Mostly T.V. station. I got ABC, I got NBC, to do a little promo about the blood, if they can get somebody with blood coming in, if they can do something about the blood. And they did. As a matter of fact, Phil from -- from ABC came in -- he came in the hospital with a camera and he talked to me, and he showed me -- I feed him the blood -- I'm sorry, feed him the food, and -- sorry. So --
Mr. Zonen: Let's move on. Did you ever do a fund-raiser on behalf of Gavin Arvizo out of The Laugh Factory?
Jamie Masada: Yes, we did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Were you working with anybody in particular on that?
Jamie Masada: What do you mean, did I work with anybody particular?
Mr. Zonen: Well, were you the one organizing?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how many fund-raisers you did?
Jamie Masada: I think I -- you know, with blood drive, everything, financial one was couple of them. I think we did two, yes.
Mr. Zonen: And that's separate from your efforts to encourage blood donation?
Jamie Masada: Yeah, the blood donations was kept another thing. We did different things for them, yes.
Mr. Zonen: How does it work that you do a benefit, financial benefit for somebody through The Laugh Factory? How does that work?
Jamie Masada: The way it works is we -- we have a person, for example, if it's charity, if it's not a charity, somebody else it is that they want a fund-raiser, we give them -- we say, “Here is the door. Whatever people that come in, you collect the money”. If it's charity, they collect the money. And the money goes to them. My employee instructions are, “Do not touch their money. Their money is their money”. Whatever -- some poor people come in and give them $20, some people give them 50, whatever they want to give them, and that's what we do. And they take the door. If there's anybody -- people they want to buy a drink or they want to buy anything else, we keep it. We don't give it back. But the rest of it all go to the charity.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Mr. Masada, do you know David Arvizo?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I do, sir.
Mr. Zonen: And how did you meet him?
Jamie Masada: I met him in the hospital. First time I met him in the hospital.
Mr. Zonen: All right. You had already known Janet Arvizo; is that correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Was it your understanding that David was Janet's husband?
Jamie Masada: That's what I was introduced by.
Mr. Zonen: And the father of the three children?
Jamie Masada: Yes. Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Did you become involved with David Arvizo in fund-raising efforts in some fashion?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Was he involved in the two fund-raisers at The Laugh Factory?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Was Janet Arvizo there at either of those two?
Jamie Masada: As far as I remember, I don't recall Janet be there at all.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how the money was collected on either of those two occasions, those two fund-raisers?
Jamie Masada: Yes. I believe first time was David and -- David and -- David and the kids. I told them, you know, “Here is the table. Sit in here”. And I wanted somebody else sit with them. I don't know who was it, but they sit by the door. Whatever they came in -- you know, most of my audience, they come in, they gave them money, whatever they gave them.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know approximately how much money would have been raised on either of those two fund-raisers based on your experience in the past?
Jamie Masada: Oh, God. I don't think it was anywhere -- you know, I don't think it was -- any of them was more than 2,000 bucks. I don't think so. Never to near 2,000 bucks. Maybe, eight, 900, 1200. I have no idea.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Do you think that 2,000 would be the maximum they would have received?
Jamie Masada: Yeah, maximum. Maximum, I would think.
Mr. Zonen: On either of those two occasions, did you collect the money or somebody working with you collect the money?
Jamie Masada: No. They did it. They did it. I think one time, as I recall, David had sat down with one of the employees that collect the money. And the employee that sat down, David and the employee sat down, and David was very upset because George Lopez was supposed to be there, and George Lopez didn't come out. And George Lopez had an argument with him, whatever, and he was kind of like upset. And I took the money, I brought it up, I gave it to him upstairs.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Do you know how much money that was?
Jamie Masada: I think it was about 800, thousand dollars, or something like that. 800, 900.
Mr. Zonen: During the time that you knew George -- that you knew David Arvizo, did he ever ask you for money?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Jamie Masada: What do I do?
The Court: Just a moment. Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll withdraw the objection. I'll withdraw it.
Mr. Zonen: Did David Arvizo ever ask you for money?
Jamie Masada: Yes, he did.
Mr. Zonen: How often?
Jamie Masada: Many time.
Mr. Zonen: How often is “many”? Give us a sense.
Jamie Masada: Anytime he was bringing the kids in, in to visit me in the office, or I would go, he would walk out with me. He said, “Well”, you know, something, “We haven't had soup, we haven't had lunch”. I mean, poor guy. You know, I gave it to him, because I wanted to give it to him. Poor guy, he needed money for eating, whatever. He was unemployed. And I gave him whatever. You know, anytime he asked me, I gave him some cash.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you he was not working?
Jamie Masada: Yes, he did.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you why he was not working?
Jamie Masada: No, he did not. I mean, I assumed, but I didn't ask, “Why you not working?” Because his kid was sick in the hospital.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever see Gavin's mother, Janet Arvizo, at the hospital when you visited?
Jamie Masada: Yes, several times I saw her.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Was she there as often as David was there, could you tell?
Jamie Masada: No -- the time I was going there, no, she wasn't at often. But I was going early in the morning usually, because my days start in the morning, early in the morning. And, no -- I mean, several times I saw her, but, no, not that often.
Mr. Zonen: Did you maintain communications with Janet Arvizo during the time that her child was sick?
Jamie Masada: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: You would talk to her?
Jamie Masada: I talked to her once a while. She call me once in a while. Yes, she does.
Mr. Zonen: Did Janet Arvizo ever ask you for money?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever give Janet Arvizo money?
Jamie Masada: No.
Mr. Zonen: But you gave David Arvizo money; is that correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: How much money do you think you gave him during the period of time his child was sick?
Jamie Masada: You are going to think I'm crazy, but I have no idea. You know, I had money in my cash -- in my pocket, you know. I go out there, you know, he asked me for some money, I gave him, 50 bucks, 40 bucks, 70 bucks. And sometime he asked me for gas for car, because he had a car now. He have a “sudan” car that Michael Jackson gave it to him, and he was -- he said he was losing a lot of gas and he need more money for gas. You know, I just gave him the money.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever see the vehicle he was talking about?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And what was it, what kind of vehicle?
Jamie Masada: One time he came in the office with a kid, with his two kids, he say, “Oh, Jamie, you got to come see”. “What's going on?” “Come on, I want to show you something”. And I went, “Okay”. And I went outside in -- on Laurel, and I saw his car was parked in front of the fire hydrant. I said, “Man, this is your car?” He say, “Yes”. I say, “You're in front of the fire hydrant”. And he parked there, and he opened -- it was a white car, like a -- what you call it? A su -- a “sudan” car, SUV -- what you call it?
Mr. Zonen: An SUV, sport utility vehicle?
Jamie Masada: Sport utility car. And I remember one thing particular about the car, a T.V. was on the dashboard. A T.V. was on the dashboard. And he said -- I said, “Well, what -- why did Michael give you that car?” He said, “Michael gave me the car so I can take the kid to Neverland”. I said, “Oh, that's very nice. That's very generous of him”. And that's -- that's the conversation I had with him.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how long he had that car?
Jamie Masada: I have no idea.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, did you have a falling-out with David Arvizo?
Jamie Masada: Not really. I never had a fall-out with him.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Was there an incident that took place involving a wallet, a conversation with him about a wallet?
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What was that?
Jamie Masada: It was -- the first time happen, it was in my club. He came in my office one time. And I remember precisely that whole thing, because I did not have money, cash in my pocket. He came in my office, and he ask that -- he said that Gavin went to George house and somehow he left his wallet with 300, $350 in it, in George house. He lost it in George Lopez's house. And I said, “Oh, really?” I said, “Gavin, this happened?” And Gavin didn't say anything. And I just kind of like, “Gavin, this happened? He said, “No”. I said -- and David went near Gavin and he said, “Tell him that happened”. And Gavin didn't say anything. And I just -- my phone rang. And I tried to pick up the phone, and then I realized Gavin said, “Oh, dad”, like some -- kind of like David elbowed Gavin, or something. And I knew that his face -- Gavin's face got all red, like the -- the time David hit him, his face was red, and, “Dad”, and something like that. And at that point, I said, “Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. Guys, come on, let's -- let me -- what was it? 350?” Whatever. I wrote him a check. I said, “Here's the check. Go -- here”. I gave him a check for $350. I said, “Don't even mention it. First, the money was from me. I gave you guys the money. Don't even get that”. Because I got really upset, because this kid is sick. He elbowed him or something. I didn't see what's happened, but I could see from the face of the kid, he did something to him.
Mr. Zonen: Did Gavin ever say anything to you to confirm that 300 or $350 was missing from his wallet?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: State of mind, Your Honor, and explains the behavior.
The Court: The objection is overruled. Go ahead.
Jamie Masada: I answer?
The Court: You may answer.
Jamie Masada: What was the question again? I'm sorry.
The Court: I can have it read back for you.
Jamie Masada: Oh, thank you. Thank you, sir.
The Court Reporter: Did Gavin ever say anything to you to confirm that 300 or $350 was missing from his wallet?
Jamie Masada: No, never said that.
Mr. Zonen: May I approach the witness, Your Honor?
The Court: Cross-examine?
Mr. Zonen: No, I'm not done. I said, “May I approach the witness?”
The Court: I'm sorry. Yes, you may. (Laughter.)
Mr. Zonen: I'm losing my voice.
The Court: I was just trying to hurry it along. I'm sorry. (Laughter.)
Mr. Zonen: I'd like to show you an exhibit. This exhibit is marked as Exhibit 624 for identification. Not yet in evidence. Take a look at that, please, and both pages of it. I'll leave a second exhibit here as well.
Jamie Masada: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recognize that?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir, I do.
Mr. Zonen: And please tell us what that is.
Jamie Masada: That's a check for $350 to David Arvizo.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Is that, in your opinion, the check that you wrote him at that time?
Jamie Masada: In my opinion, yes.
Mr. Zonen: And the date that's on there, what is the date?
Jamie Masada: 10-13-00.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Would that date have been written on that check accurately? In other words, would you have written the same date on the check as was the date that you wrote it?
Jamie Masada: I think so.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Okay. There's a second exhibit, which I think is 623, right next to you. Go ahead and grab that one and take a look at that.
Jamie Masada: Okay. This one?
Mr. Zonen: Yes, please.
Jamie Masada: All right.
Mr. Zonen: And confirm that number. That little kind of pumpkin-colored tag on the bottom should have a number on it.
Jamie Masada: This is 623. Case No. 1133603.
Mr. Zonen: That's fine.
Jamie Masada: People --
Mr. Zonen: That's fine. It is 623. What is that document that you're holding?
Jamie Masada: It's a copy.
Mr. Zonen: Of what?
Jamie Masada: A copy of a check.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. What is that check? Is that your check?
Jamie Masada: That's Laugh Factory check.
Mr. Zonen: Made out to whom?
Jamie Masada: To David Arvizo.
Mr. Zonen: For how much?
Jamie Masada: For $800.
Mr. Zonen: What do you believe that was for? Do you have a recollection of it?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I do.
Mr. Zonen: What was that?
Jamie Masada: I think it's, again, another time he came, ask me for money that I didn't have cash with me, so I had to write him a check for his rent.
Mr. Zonen: And that was what that check was for?
Jamie Masada: That's what he said for.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have a sense of how much money you gave David Arvizo during the time that Gavin was ill?
Jamie Masada: Not really.
Mr. Zonen: On one of the two occasions that you were having a benefit at The Laugh Factory --
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: -- did you have an argument with David, or did he have an argument with you?
Jamie Masada: Not really. I don't recall argument.
Mr. Zonen: Did he ever throw money on the floor?
Jamie Masada: Oh. One time -- the second, I think, if I'm not mistaken, it was the second time that the money I gave -- we did a fund-raising for David. And we went upstairs, and somehow he was downstairs collecting the money. And we went upstairs, giving the money to David Arvizo. And David all of a sudden -- we gave him the money. And I ask him about -- again, one more time about -- because Gavin was up there. Somebody was there. I can't recall who was there. Somebody was -- few people that were up there, they ask me about the wallet. Somehow the wallet came up. And David was trying to tell Gavin to talk about the wallet. And Gavin did not want to say anything about it. He said he didn't know what wallet he's talking about. And because of he wasn't -- kid was not confirming what he was saying, and he throw the money at me. And I'm kind of like -- you know, I was kind of like insulted; I say how unappreciated person he is, so I start walking away.
Mr. Zonen: You walked away?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What happened to the money?
Jamie Masada: I have no idea. Maybe somebody picked it up. I have no idea.
Mr. Zonen: You left it behind, though?
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: You didn't pick it up?
Jamie Masada: No, I was upset at that time.
Mr. Zonen: Was this the money that was the door money to one of those benefits?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What was it that you said to Mr. Arvizo prior to him doing that?
Jamie Masada: I think was something to do -- I mean, again, it's -- God, it's five years, four years ago. I can't remember word by word. But it was something to do with wallet.
Mr. Zonen: Whose wallet?
Jamie Masada: The wallet of Gavin, because I believe I spoke to Ann Lopez. Ann Lopez said they find the wallet and was only $50 in it or something. And I'm trying to ask him, “Wasn't that what you told me you got a check for, 350 from me? What's going on in here? Can you explain something here? Something is not kosher in here. Hello?” And he's kind of like -- he said -- he ask Gavin, “Gavin, confirm what's happened”, and Gavin would not say anything.
Mr. Zonen: That's the conversation we just had already?
Jamie Masada: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any other dealings with David Arvizo thereafter?
Jamie Masada: Yeah, he would come by the club once in a while. He would come in, you know. I mean, at that point after that, you know, it was kind of like, you know, you try to help people, and the time people become a little bit, you know, not truthful, you just kind of like -- you know, you're not as friendly as you're supposed to be. So I wasn't that much friendly with him. I mean, we were still -- we still talk anytime he calls me. I pick up his phone, I talk to him.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, did you become aware of the fact that the Arvizo -- or any members of the Arvizo family were visiting Neverland, Michael Jackson's ranch?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Were you involved in some way in introducing Gavin to Michael Jackson, to your knowledge?
Jamie Masada: To my knowledge, I don't know if it was me doing or so many -- I was in the hospital. The kid was -- you know, he needed help. And his wish was -- looking at a T.V. on the -- in the hospital, he saw Michael Jackson on the T.V., and he said he wanted to meet Michael Jackson. I didn't know Michael Jackson. I never met Michael Jackson. And I want to bring his wish through like Make a Wish. So I say, “Okay, if you eat, I do anything you want. You want to meet Adam Sandler, all those guys you told me, I'll introduce him to”. I didn't know Michael Jackson, but at that point I made several phone calls to different places. I called Paul Mooney, David Salzman. I called Quincy Jones' office. I called anybody I could to get some kind of number. Somebody say call some -- some -- some studio in Vine Street, called The Studio on Vine Street. I was doing that in the hospital, call The Studio on Vine Street. I tried to call -- they gave me number, they said it's Neverland. I don't know if it was Neverland. So I left a message for everybody I could, “Hey, if anybody get this message, please tell Michael to watch this ABC show and this thing, and if he can watch it, please call him tomorrow. There's this kid dying”. And I left a message. I don't know if my message got to him or he called next day by chance, by will of God. I have no idea.
Mr. Zonen: But in any event, you became aware that Gavin had started having conversations with Mr. Jackson?
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did Gavin ever talk about that when you visited him at the hospital?
Jamie Masada: Yes. The next day when he was so impressed and so grateful and so happy to hear from Michael. Michael call him. And he said, “Do you have anything?” I said, “I don't know”. I made a few phone call. I don't know if anything came from me. Maybe somebody else call him. I have no idea. But at that point, he was very happy, and he was very excited about it. And you could see his face, he was cheered up a little bit. And what else?
Mr. Zonen: Are you aware of whether or not he ever visited Michael Jackson at Neverland Ranch?
Jamie Masada: Yes. Father told me Michael invite them to go to Neverland. And they were going to go to Neverland. So I said, “Oh, great. Wonderful. Have a good time”. And father said, “Do you want to go?” And I said, “I got three other kids dying. I got to go take care. I wish I could go. I can't go to Neverland. I wish I could. But go ahead. You guys enjoy”.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, did you view or watch the television documentary entitled “Living with Michael Jackson”? Did you ever see that?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did. The second time they showed it.
Mr. Zonen: In the United States?
Jamie Masada: In United States, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Were you aware that Gavin was going to be featured in that documentary prior to your viewing it?
Jamie Masada: I was aware of it because Janet called me about that.
Mr. Zonen: All right. When Janet called you, do you remember when that was?
Jamie Masada: No idea. The date -- I'm very bad with date. I'm telling you now, don't go to the date.
Mr. Zonen: Was Gavin -- was Gavin already well at that point?
Jamie Masada: Gavin was not well, but he was -- you know, I mean, still have a problem with the kidney, because, you remember now, he had one kidney, and he have no spleen, and he got to take medication for his spleen, because he goes through any room that have a germ, he could get sick immediately. And he had one kidney. And at the time he have one kidney, you know, he got to go for his blood being, you know, changed or dialysis, or whatever it is. Once in a while he got to do that, all kinds of stuff like that. So he's not still well.
Mr. Zonen: When Janet called you, was she upset?
Jamie Masada: She said -- yes, she was upset.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: I was just asking whether --
The Court: The objection is overruled. And the answer was, “Yes”. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Mr. Zonen: You then viewed the documentary “Living with Michael Jackson”; is that right?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And you watched Gavin in that film?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Were you aware of whether or not that film itself caused Gavin some problems?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Hearsay; foundation.
Mr. Zonen: The question is whether he knew.
The Court: I'll allow the question, but you can only answer it “yes” or “no”. And I'll have it read back to you.
Jamie Masada: Okay. Please.
The Court Reporter: Were you aware of whether or not that film itself caused Gavin some problems?
Jamie Masada: Yes, it did.
Mr. Zonen: What were the nature of those problems, to your understanding?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Were you told by anybody the nature of those problems?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
Mr. Zonen: State of mind. Not for the truth of the matter.
The Court: The objection is sustained.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Mr. Zonen: Did you do a presentation of any kind or were you filmed in any way on behalf of Michael Jackson?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Tell us about that. When did that happen?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: When did that happen? Go ahead.
Jamie Masada: It was -- I don't know, again, the day. It was sometime that -- after Martin Bashir show, that film. And the people, they called -- Janet called and said they needed to do --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: Just tell us what you did.
Jamie Masada: What I did. They came in my club and they ask me if I can talk on the T.V. And they talked to me if I can talk about Martin Bashir. I start talking about Martin Bashir, that Martin Bashir -- what I thought, that he did something wrong, because showing a kid, underage kid, on his T.V -- on a T.V. for -- he make millions of dollar, and he put this poor kid on a tape, and he didn't even digitize his face, and people in the school, they call him “faggot” by it. And I -- I felt terrible for him. I really felt horrible about it.
Mr. Zonen: Who was it who asked to you do something on tape on behalf of Michael Jackson? Do you know who the person was?
Jamie Masada: I think, if I'm not mistaken -- I'm not hundred percent sure, maybe I shouldn't answer it, but I think it started with Janet.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; calls for speculation.
Jamie Masada: Oh, don't answer it?
The Court: Don't answer.
Jamie Masada: I don't recall.
Mr. Zonen: Did that person -- (Laughter.)
Mr. Zonen: Well, that was a more concise answer.
Jamie Masada: Well, that was bad?
Mr. Zonen: No, no, no. How many people showed up?
Jamie Masada: They showed up about, oh, God, three, four people, five people.
Mr. Zonen: Cameramen included?
Jamie Masada: Cameramen.
Mr. Zonen: Where did they do the filming?
Jamie Masada: In Laugh Factory in Los Angeles.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Were any of them introduced to you?
Jamie Masada: I'm sure they were.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember any of their names?
Jamie Masada: None.
Mr. Zonen: How long was the filming?
Jamie Masada: The filming, they said they going to do about two, three minutes, just talk about Martin Bashir. But afterwards, they -- I understood that my mike was on, and they kept on talking to me about Michael. They talked to me about different stuff. I don't know if they tape all of that. I'm not sure. But they said, “I want to pick up the spot I talk about Martin Bashir, what he did was wrong”.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you ever see the production that was done that featured you, among other people?
Jamie Masada: No, I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if it was ever shown on television?
Jamie Masada: I think it was, because people told me it was on T.V.
Mr. Zonen: To this day, have you ever seen it?
Jamie Masada: No, I got a tape of it, but I never got a chance. I wish I had time to go see it. I have a tape of it. And I know -- I'm -- I don't look at myself too much.
Mr. Zonen: But you've never looked -- you've never viewed it in its entirety?
Jamie Masada: No.
Mr. Zonen: And you've never viewed the portion that you recited?
Jamie Masada: No.
Mr. Zonen: And you don't know if it contains the part that was filmed after you thought you were done, or during the part?
Jamie Masada: I have no idea, but the people, they told me what they said. I says, “Well, that's the press. Let it go”. I didn't even --
Mr. Zonen: Did somebody tell you what to say?
Jamie Masada: The people that were there, they were encourage me to talk about Michael. If Michael helped the kid, what my thought was. Who else helped the kid, if Adam Sandler helped the kid, if anybody helped the kid. And I was very open. I was talking about it.
Mr. Zonen: What did you understand to be Mr. Jackson's assistance to this child at the time that you did this video?
Jamie Masada: I thought Michael, Adam Sandler, everybody really -- they helped the kid. That's my belief. Everybody, they did help the kid. At that point I believed that.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any personal information at that time on what Mr. Jackson did on behalf of Gavin Arvizo at the time you did this video?
Jamie Masada: What -- I'm sorry.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have -- when you made statements on behalf of --
Jamie Masada: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: -- Michael Jackson and other people --
Jamie Masada: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: -- did you have a sense of what it was that Michael Jackson did on behalf of Gavin Arvizo?
Jamie Masada: I'm not still clear. I'm sorry.
Mr. Zonen: Were you encouraged to say good things about Michael Jackson?
Jamie Masada: Yeah. The people ask me, “Hey”, you know, “Can you say that?” And I say, “Yeah”. I believed it. I said it, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did you believe the reason for your presence on that video was to say something about Martin Bashir?
Jamie Masada: Yes, that's what I believed.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time did you get a phone call from Janet Arvizo calling from Neverland?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Did she sound upset to you?
Jamie Masada: Uh --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: Did she sound upset to you?
Mr. Mesereau: And leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer “yes” or “no”.
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What did she tell you?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: State of mind and spontaneous declaration and excitable utterance, the last being the exception to the hearsay.
Mr. Mesereau: No foundation for that justification.
Jamie Masada: What do I do?
The Court: That's true for the spontaneous declaration and the excitable utterance. There is no foundation. The state of mind, I think that would depend on a further foundation also, so I'll sustain the foundation objection.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Mr. Zonen: You said she was upset. Describe that to me. You've had other conversations with her prior to that.
Jamie Masada: I had many conversations with her. She was kind of like in a state of, you know, like crying, “Oh, my God”. You know, her voice, you could see like -- “Oh, my God, they hold” -- “They are holding me here”.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Objection. Hearsay; move to strike.
The Court: The -- I'll strike that. The foundation I was looking for was time frame foundation, because her state of mind is only relevant at a certain time, so I think you missed --
Mr. Zonen: Can you tell us approximately when that call was taking place? If you can't tell us a date, then in comparison to other events.
Jamie Masada: It was -- in my recollection, it was sometime later after Martin Bashir type of stuff.
Mr. Zonen: Can you tell us approximately how long after Martin Bashir?
Jamie Masada: I have no idea.
Mr. Zonen: I mean, would it be measured in weeks or measured in months?
Jamie Masada: Few weeks maybe.
Mr. Zonen: All right. All right. And then you described her as crying; is that correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And you've heard her crying before?
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: At the time she had that conversation with you about her child being ill?
Jamie Masada: The time he was ill, a couple of different times I heard her crying. It was in the hospital I saw her crying, and her voice.
Mr. Zonen: And describe her emotional state as you talked to her on that telephone call after the Martin Bashir screening. Describe her emotional state in comparison to those other occasions.
Jamie Masada: She was upset. She was crying, the same way was before. Her voice was the same as like her child was sick.
Mr. Zonen: And what did she tell you?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: I'm going to admit this for the state of mind only.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you.
Mr. Zonen: What did she tell you?
The Court: That means that it's not -- I'm going to let you answer in a minute.
Jamie Masada: Okay.
The Court: (To the jury) That means that I've limited the use of this testimony not for the truth of the matter asserted, not for the truth of the matter of what she says, but to show her frame of mind. All right. You may answer the question. Do you want it reread?
Jamie Masada: Please.
The Court: Okay.
The Court Reporter: What did she tell you?
Jamie Masada: I mean, depends what conversation. I mean, now I have several conversations.
Mr. Zonen: This first one.
Jamie Masada: Oh, God, I don't know which one was first.
Mr. Zonen: As best you can recall.
Jamie Masada: Which one was first, which one was second. Four, five years ago. I have no idea. But I could say what conversation I had. I don't know which one was what.
Mr. Zonen: The one that you most remember where she was crying. That one.
Jamie Masada: She was -- that one was from Neverland. She said, “They are holding me here with my kid against my will. I need to get out of here. Please do something”. I said, “Why don't you call the police?” We talked about all kind of stuff like that. You want to --
The Court: Hold it. Hold it. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you make an effort to introduce her to a lawyer?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And who was the lawyer that you introduced her to?
Jamie Masada: Bill Dickerman.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Do you remember what that was?
Jamie Masada: It was after the Martin Bashir taping was going on. The people, they were calling Gavin all kind of bad names. And I took her to -- and the kid to -- to Bill Dickerman to stop, if they can stop. ABC was running it. VH-1 was showing his picture, MTV. All of them. The way I understood, everybody was showing his picture. And the people, they recognize him, and they would call him bad names. And he was really upset. And we were going to try to see if -- if Bill Dickerman could write a letter to those people, tell them stop using the tape of -- showing his face.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Were you the one, then, who took her to Bill Dickerman?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And was the purpose for that to get her child off television?
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was there any other reason that you took her to Bill Dickerman?
Jamie Masada: No, that was the reason we took her, because didn't want to be -- her child be called “fag”, or whatever was calling.
Mr. Zonen: Were you present during any of those conversations?
Jamie Masada: I --
Mr. Zonen: By “those conversations”, I mean between Janet Arvizo and Bill Dickerman, Attorney Dickerman.
Jamie Masada: Yes, I was, on four occasion. I remember four occasion I remember I was present.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And did you participate in the conversations?
Jamie Masada: First one, participate.
Mr. Zonen: I'm not asking you the content. I'm just asking if you were actually contributing in some fashion to these conversations.
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What -- where did the conversations take place? Were they at multiple locations?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: What were the multiple locations?
Jamie Masada: One time was in my office. No, no, it was in the Bill Dickerman -- I took them Bill Dickerman office. And it was in Bill Dickerman office. They talk to the -- to Bill Dickerman. And second time it was in my club. And I believe third time it was in my club. Fourth time it was -- I was present with Bill Dickerman. We took them to -- we took -- we took the kids and the mother, they were going with Jay, they were going to play baseball, and we took them to baseball, and I was going watch the kids to play baseball. So those four times I was present.
Mr. Zonen: All right. There was one meeting at The Laugh Factory; is that right?
Jamie Masada: Two meetings at Laugh Factory, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if Janet was accompanied by anybody from Neverland?
Jamie Masada: I understood that's what she told me. I was inside the club. She said we -- came in, and she --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you ever offer money to Janet Arvizo?
Jamie Masada: Did I ever offer money to Janet Arvizo?
Mr. Zonen: Uh-huh.
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did you ever tell her that there was somebody prepared to give her a substantial amount of money?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I know where you're going now. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: You're troubled by something, are you not?
Jamie Masada: Yes. Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: The person --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; move to strike the comments.
The Court: Sustained; stricken.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Mr. Zonen: The person -- there is a person who was -- let me back off a little bit. The conversation that you had with Janet Arvizo about somebody having money for her --
Jamie Masada: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Tell us what you told Janet Arvizo.
Jamie Masada: It was after Martin Bashir and all of that stuff happened. And I told Janet, I said, “Janet, particular person wants to give you -- actually, offered to give me a check, as much as amount of money you want, and wants you to just take care of your kid and family, and feels bad for all of that stuff. And if you need money, whatever money you need, I know this particular person he would give you whatever money you need”, you know. “You need to buy a house, whatever you need, he would get you the money. Whatever money you need, he would give it to you”.
Mr. Zonen: What did she say?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: State of mind. Particularly given counsel's opening statement.
The Court: All right. The objection is sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Could we approach sidebar?
The Court: All right. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
The Court: All right. Would -- excuse me. (To the jury) What I'm going to do is, again, I'm going to change the ruling that I made a moment ago, and I'm going to allow the answer to this question. But again, I'm going to give you the cautionary instruction that this answer that is about to be given to this question is -- is offered for a limited purpose, which is Mrs. Arvizo's state of mind only. So that would be Janet's state of mind only, not for the truth of the matter asserted. And I'll have the question reread to the witness, and then he may answer.
The Court Reporter: What did she say?
Mr. Zonen: With regards to your conveying that comment about a person prepared to give her money, what did she say?
Jamie Masada: She said, “No, tell them all I need friend. I don't need money. I just need pray. And I don't need money. Thank you very much, but tell them we need a friend. That's all we need”. And I say, “You sure you don't want money? If you need any money, you know, let me know”.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive.
The Court: I'll strike the last sentence.
Mr. Zonen: When did this conversation take place? I know your difficulties with dates, but in comparison to some other time.
Jamie Masada: After Martin Bashir.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if Janet Arvizo was still with David Arvizo at the time of that conversation?
Jamie Masada: No. Martin Bashir happened, David -- they were separated. No, they were not together.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever see Janet Arvizo with bruises on her?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know where those bruises were on her body?
Jamie Masada: One time I saw bruises upper -- like nearby by her neck, near upper chest, like somebody tried to -- what they call -- I don't know what was it. Looked like somebody tried to choke her or something. And there was make-up on it, and the make-up was coming off. And I said, “What's this?” She'd hide it. She didn't want to let me know --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive.
The Court: I'll strike after he -- “And there was make-up on it”, from there on, I'll strike.
Mr. Zonen: Did you see bruises on any other occasion on her?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: How many occasions do you think?
Jamie Masada: Another time I saw bruises was -- it was on -- one side of her face was swollen and her eyes were swollen. It was like black and blue. Again, make-up was on it.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. I have no further questions.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning.
Jamie Masada: Good morning, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Masada, we haven't met. My name is Tom Mesereau. I speak for Michael Jackson.
Jamie Masada: All right, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Masada, do you remember receiving a phone call from an investigator for the Santa Barbara District Attorney's Office in December of 2003? He said his name was Tim Rooney. Do you remember that?
Jamie Masada: I don't recall it, but if he said he did, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember talking to someone in December, around December 9th, 2003, from the Santa Barbara District Attorney's Office?
Jamie Masada: No, I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling this person that Gavin's parents came to you and wanted financial help? He repeated, “Who asked you that?” You said, “The parents”?
Jamie Masada: I meant “husband”. I never said “mother”.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection to show you a police transcript of your --
Jamie Masada: I don't need to see the police --
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't know the phone call was being recorded?
Mr. Zonen: May the witness be allowed to answer the question in its entirety before counsel steps in with his next question?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't know your phone call --
Mr. Zonen: He hasn't answered the question.
The Court: He started to answer it. He's allowed to finish it.
Jamie Masada: What was the question again?
Mr. Mesereau: I'm not sure even I know at this point.
The Court: The question was whether it would refresh your recollection to show you a police transcript, and you said, “I don't need to see it”, and you were interrupted.
Jamie Masada: Yeah, because it is “parents”. I meant “father”.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Well, you didn't know your phone call was being recorded, correct?
Jamie Masada: I don't know any of my phone call was record.
Mr. Mesereau: No one has ever told you that that phone conversation was recorded by the District Attorney's Office of Santa Barbara, correct?
Jamie Masada: I don't know if they did. I'm not -- they never told me anything.
Mr. Mesereau: You did tell them that the parents wanted financial help. You were then asked, “Who asked you that?” And you replied, “The parents”, right?
Jamie Masada: Yeah. “The parents” means “father”. Let me correct it.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh, I see. How many meetings have you had with anyone related to the prosecution before you testified in this case?
Jamie Masada: How many meeting with what?
Mr. Mesereau: With anyone related to the prosecution before you testified in this case.
Jamie Masada: I had a meeting this morning. They came in, they say, “You sit in the room”. And meaning the people that came investigating my office? What are you talking about, sir? Explain it to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Please identify every meeting you had with anyone related to the prosecution before you testified today.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as vague and compound.
Jamie Masada: Oh, God.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: A lot of them, right?
Jamie Masada: Yes. A lot of them, yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: How many do you think?
Jamie Masada: I have no idea. They came in my office, say they want to talk. They came, I don't know, two, three, four, five times. I didn't write them down. They call me.
Mr. Mesereau: And have you ever discussed what you were going to say in court today with anyone associated with the prosecution?
Jamie Masada: Only thing I have spoken to, I spoke to Mr. -- I spoke to you (indicating) one time. And there was a -- I believe -- no, just one time I've spoken to.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember ever telling a Santa Barbara sheriff's investigator that Janet wanted a watch, so you bought her a watch?
Jamie Masada: Janet want a watch?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jamie Masada: Um, not as far as I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you a transcript?
Jamie Masada: No, because I didn't buy a watch for Janet. I don't know what you're talking about.
Mr. Mesereau: You never told them she wanted a watch and you bought a watch, correct?
Jamie Masada: Maybe it was something for Davellin. I got a watch for Davellin.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jamie Masada: For the girl. The daughter.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you give the watch to Davellin?
Jamie Masada: Huh?
Mr. Mesereau: When did you get a watch for Davellin?
Jamie Masada: Davellin, she came in -- we do, at The Laugh Factory, every Christmas and Thanksgiving, we do feed homeless. And Davellin came out there to help me to do -- to help the serving the homeless. And we were giving the gifts for the kids, homeless kid, and Davellin, at that point I remember she said something about she need -- that watch was nice, was giving to the kids, and I said, “I get you one”. That's what happened.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you knew that Louise Palanker had given $20,000 to the Arvizos, correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And you knew that she had written a $10,000 check to Janet, correct?
Jamie Masada: I didn't know it. What do you mean, “correct”? No, I did not know she wrote it to Janet. How would I know?
Mr. Mesereau: Well, did you ever discuss with her where she was getting that money?
Mr. Zonen: Who is “her”? Objection; vague.
Mr. Mesereau: That's okay. I'll withdraw it and rephrase.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss with Louise Palanker who she was writing her checks to?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: You may answer “yes” or “no”.
Jamie Masada: No, I didn't ask her who write check to, because I'm not -- I have nothing to do with her checkbook.
The Court: I just said “yes” or “no”. I'll strike the balance.
Jamie Masada: Oh, sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you know whether or not Louise Palanker wrote a $10,000 to Janet?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I do. For --
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Lack of foundation; and hearsay.
The Court: I'll allow you to answer this question either with a “yes” or a “no”. It's --
Jamie Masada: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever telling anyone --
The Court: I'm sorry, I misdirected. You need -- I'm going to strike the question and the answer. That couldn't be answered “yes” or “no”. Go back and rephrase. You asked him whether or not, so it can't be “yes” or “no”.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever aware that Louise Palanker wrote a $10,000 check to Janet Arvizo?
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you learn about that?
Jamie Masada: Oh, Gavin was going to go home, and they want him to have a kind of room that was sanitized, and that's what hospital said. And I was looking for finding an apartment for them, to find an apartment. And then next thing I know, I heard from David that Louise wrote the check. They going to take the money in the grandmother's house and make one of the rooms become sanitized for the kid. I don't need to look for apartment anymore.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember ever telling any police investigator that, after talking to Janet on the phone, you wrote checks to pay for judo and karate school for the kids?
Jamie Masada: No, it was Jay and Janet. Yes, Jay and Janet.
Mr. Mesereau: Jay and Janet asked you to pay for judo and karate school, correct?
Jamie Masada: No, they didn't ask me to do it. I volunteer to do it, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: After they told you they couldn't pay for it, correct?
Jamie Masada: No, they were telling -- no, don't put words in my mouth. Let me say -- if you want to know the truth, let me tell you the truth, what happened.
Mr. Mesereau: I would like to know the truth for sure.
Jamie Masada: That's what I'm going to tell you. That's what I'm going to tell you. If you want me to say it, I say it. They were suggesting that they were going to take the kid, because the kid was bothering -- all of the kids, they were bothering him. And they want to take him to put him on other school. They said they -- Jay said, “We don't have enough money”. And I said, “How much you guys short?” They said, “$400”. I said, “I could help that”. I said, “I will have no problem to write the check for $400”. That's what I did. And the other occasion about judo you ask. Judo -- I went to their house. I went up there, and the kids were talking about they wanted protection. I suggested -- I said, “Can I go” -- “You guys should go to judo or something”. And Jay and Janet was up there. They said, “Oh, thank you very much. God bless you. You're helping us out”.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay
The Court: Okay. We're going to take a break. Let me tell the jury what we're going to do. I'm going to give a little longer break to you because we need to address a couple of issues outside of your presence, so we're going to take our regular break for 15 minutes. And then we'll come back, and it will be about another 10 or 15 minutes longer than our normal break at this time, just so you know. So you probably won't be back in until 12:00.
The Jury: (In unison) Okay.
Jamie Masada: Am I excused?
The Court: I want to see everybody here at the end of the regular break.
Mr. Zonen: Quarter to?
The Court: Yeah.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Yes, I just want to take up a couple of the issues. I was told earlier that Dr. Katz was going to be the next witness, so I thought I better clean this up before we start with him. I've been told now that that may not be the case, but we've set the time aside, so let's just do this. The first issue that's before me on Dr. Katz's testimony was a motion by Mr. Mesereau that Mr. Oxman actually wrote, which seeks to limit the psychologist from being able to testify to the ultimate fact, the credibility of the children, pointing out that that was done in the grand jury hearing. And my ruling on that is that, in accord with the request, he is not to give his opinion as to their credibility. I think that covers that, doesn't it, Mr. Oxman?
Mr. Oxman: Yes, sir. And I think it also reflects --
The Bailiff: You have to speak up.
Mr. Oxman: It also -- it also reflects to ultimate facts, Your Honor, as to whether or not it occurred.
The Court: Turn on your mike.
Mr. Oxman: Also reflects the ultimate facts as to whether or not the incident occurred.
The Court: Yes. So he's not allowed to give his opinion as to credibility or his opinion as to whether the actual things happened.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, we have no intention of asking either of those questions about his view of the credibility --
The Court: I don't think your mike's on. Is it? Can you hear back there?
Mr. Zonen: All right. We have no intention on asking either of those questions, nor will we.
The Court: All right. The next issue is the -- Mr. Mesereau has submitted a limited waiver. I saw a copy of the limited waiver of confidentiality signed by Bradley Miller. Have you seen that?
Mr. Zonen: Yes, I have it in front of me.
The Court: And do you wish to speak to that?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Zonen: I don't believe you can have a limited waiver of a nature like this to be able to ask a therapist two questions about a person who is presumably his patient. And, of course, Dr. Katz has never acknowledged that this person --
The Court: I never let him. It cost Mr. Oxman a thousand dollars, as I recall. (Laughter.)
Mr. Zonen: Now, let's assume --
The Court: You don't have to say anything.
Mr. Zonen: Not without a lawyer at his side.
The Court: But so your issue is the -- he now has a waiver, Mr. Mesereau, Mr. Oxman, they have a waiver as to the very issue that I was saying they couldn't address, which is whether or not he was a patient.
Mr. Zonen: Well, actually, it doesn't do that. It specifically is a waiver to a conversation involving two questions. I don't know that Dr. Katz would be comfortable even acknowledging that he's a patient, given the limited nature of this waiver. I don't believe that -- that's one objection I have to it. But the principal objection I have to it is that unless there is a more extensive waiver that would cover any related conversations -- let's assume that this conversation did take place. And I think you're going to find out it didn't, but let's assume that something similar took place to it. Would I be entitled to ask Dr. Katz questions about the nature of that communication and other communications relevant to it? And let me give you an example. Let's assume Dr. Katz was treating Brad Miller, assuming he was his patient, for some malady that involved honesty. Let's assume that he was treating him for some malady that involved his workplace relationship with his employer, Mark Geragos, in which case this could be in the context of much greater conversations, conversations between Dr. Katz and Brad Miller, and even conversations between Brad Miller and Mark Geragos over a much greater period of time. How does Dr. Katz necessarily defend himself from these two statements without talking about the other conversations that may be directly related to this issue? I also know of no authority for a partial waiver, and they haven't cited any.
The Court: You can look at Brett vs. Superior Court, 1978 case, 20 Cal.3d 844. I guess the problem I'm having -- I think I've got past the partial waiver problem.
Mr. Zonen: May I add one more thing to it? And that is relevance.
The Court: That's where I'm having the problem is the relevance. What is the possible relevance, Mr. Mesereau?
Mr. Mesereau: I'll be examining Dr. Katz, Your Honor. There's definite relevance, because Dr. Katz has been -- has had a financial motivation to be a celebrity psychologist. In fact, he finally got a T.V. show recently. It's a reality show on one of the networks. Dr. Katz wants to be in a celebrity case. Dr. Katz found a way to be in a celebrity case, this one. And according to his former patient, who has waived the privilege, this man kept telling him, “I want to meet celebrities. I want to be in a celebrity case”. That would suggest a motivation to want to see this thing go forward.
The Court: Let me see your copy of the --
Mr. Mesereau: The waiver?
The Court: What I'm going to do at this point is to agree that there is a possibility of a limited waiver and I'll accept the limited waiver. I'm still not convinced of the relevancy based on what you represent -- well, excuse me, what Bradley Miller represents is that Dr. Katz said he wanted to be a celebrity therapist. I'm not sure that the -- I have to think about the inference you want to have made from that.
Mr. Mesereau: It would suggest financial motivation, Your Honor. And the scope of cross-examination for financial motive is very broad. You're talking about a Beverly Hills psychologist who has desperately wanted to be involved with celebrities for a long time. And he was very clear with his patient, Brad Miller, that he wanted to meet celebrities and get involved in celebrity cases. That's what it really comes down to.
The Court: All right. I'll give a little more thought on that.
Mr. Zonen: Is there an offer of proof that Bradley Miller will be testifying as a witness for the defense?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, there is. He will be testifying for the defense.
The Court: In the -- the limited waiver, as I see it, as far as the District Attorney's concerned, you were giving some hypotheticals, and before you could address that type of thing, before you could go beyond the cross-examination limited to that conversation, you'd have to have my permission. You'd have to be able to make the same sort of -- have a witness make a declaration, and I'm going to -- if I allow it in, it will be narrowly construed as to any conversations. This is a really important privilege that's being protected here. So, I'm not saying you can't do it, but you were just giving me hypotheticals; what if this, and what if that, and that's not where we are.
Mr. Zonen: I, of course, don't know, because --
The Court: I'm just saying, to go beyond -- there's cross-examination here that you can clearly make about this, you know, what was really said, and get the whole conversation out on that issue. Obviously you're not limited to the two statements that are represented here. But to go into why he's in treatment or any of that, you can't touch that.
Mr. Zonen: I understand that, but here's my concern. If it's true that Bradley Miller is Dr. Katz's patient, and assuming for this argument that he is, if it's true that Mark Geragos is Bradley Miller's employer, and Dr. Katz is a psychologist treating Bradley Miller, I would assume that among their discussions, perhaps multiple discussions, is his workplace relationship with his employer.
The Court: Well, you would assume that, but we don't know that. That's why I'm saying, whatever else you want to go into, you're going to have to provide me with some sort of statement signed, as -- as they did with Bradley Miller. Although, this is not a statement under penalty of perjury, but it gives me the information that I need to know whether I'm going to let you go into it. That's all I'm telling you. Okay?
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
The Court: All right. At the -- I think what you'll have to do is to file the waiver when -- the original waiver when you're ready. I'll give it back. I've got a copy of it. I just didn't have an original.
Mr. Mesereau: I only have an e-mailed waiver. That's all I have at the present.
Ms. Yu: It's been faxed.
Mr. Mesereau: A faxed waiver.
Ms. Yu: We'll get the original.
Mr. Mesereau: We will get the original, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. I think we're ready, then, to go forward with the testimony. Do you want to bring in the jury, please?
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: All right. You may proceed.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Masada, when Jay Jackson and Janet Arvizo called you and --
Mr. Zonen: Objection; vague.
Mr. Mesereau: He's only testified to one call, Your Honor. Your Honor --
Mr. Zonen: And two people placing it?
Mr. Mesereau: -- I'll rephrase it.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Masada, approximately when did Jay Jackson and Janet Arvizo call you and discuss the issue of the judo club or karate club, if you know?
Jamie Masada: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Obviously it was your impression that Janet Arvizo was involved with Mr. Jay Jackson at that point, right?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know that Jay Jackson was making $8,000 a month?
Jamie Masada: No, I didn't.
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know whether or not Janet was collecting welfare at that point and giving it to Jay?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Assuming facts not in evidence, and hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Janet ever discuss the J.C. Penney lawsuit with you?
Mr. Zonen: Objection, irrelevant and hearsay.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you have a conversation with Janet about the J.C. Penney lawsuit?
Jamie Masada: After I heard it on the news.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you hear about it on the news?
Jamie Masada: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it recently?
Jamie Masada: No, it was a couple, few months ago. I don't know how many months ago it was. It was in the news.
Mr. Mesereau: So you're in touch with Janet these days, right?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sometimes I am.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last talk to her?
Jamie Masada: Before Christmas.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you indicated that you had a lot of meetings with either the prosecution or somebody connected with the prosecution, correct?
Jamie Masada: The detective -- the detective, they came to my office many times, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When was the last time you had an in-person discussion with anybody associated with the prosecution?
Jamie Masada: This morning.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where was that?
Jamie Masada: It was in the room where the witnesses sit.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you have a discussion with anybody in that room this morning?
Jamie Masada: The discussion, Mr. Ron Zonen, he said, “It's going to be easy. Just relax. I'm going to go to a room and we're going to call you in a few minutes. I have a witness on this side. I'm going to talk to them, and they're going to bring you in”.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when you had a discussion with Janet Arvizo about the J.C. Penney case --
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- without telling me what she said, did you learn approximately when that case was resolved?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Irrelevant; hearsay; lack of foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether or not the J.C. Penney case was ever resolved?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Irrelevant and hearsay; lack of foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had discussions with Janet Arvizo about this case?
Jamie Masada: About this case, not really.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you mean by “not really”?
Jamie Masada: I mean, the only thing she -- at one time --
Mr. Mesereau: I'm not asking you what she said. I'm just asking you if you've discussed this case with Janet.
Jamie Masada: Yeah, maybe. Yeah, maybe I did one time.
Mr. Mesereau: Maybe one time?
Jamie Masada: Yes. Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And when was that maybe one time?
Jamie Masada: Maybe one time about -- God, I don't know when it's about. The case was on the sheriffs and the District Attorney and everybody else. Was maybe about six, seven months, eight months ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When did you last see Janet?
Jamie Masada: I guess, approximately, maybe about seven, eight -- six months, seven months ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Months ago?
Jamie Masada: I don't know exact -- I'm very bad with time, so don't corner me on that.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did you see her?
Jamie Masada: I saw her in her apartment.
Mr. Mesereau: And where was that?
Jamie Masada: It was in West L.A. somewhere.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jamie Masada: It was Jay's apartment, or their apartment, or whatever.
Mr. Mesereau: So you visited Janet and Jay in their apartment in West Los Angeles, correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm not asking you the address. I don't think that's relevant. But West Los Angeles is very different from East Los Angeles, isn't it?
Jamie Masada: Yes, it is.
Mr. Mesereau: Much more affluent, correct?
Jamie Masada: Some of the places. Some of the places.
Mr. Mesereau: But generally, as an area of Los Angeles, it's one of the most affluent areas of Los Angeles, isn't it?
Jamie Masada: Yes. They have poor places and rich places, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: It is considered one of the most affluent parts of L.A., correct?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Irrelevant and lack of foundation. He's not a --
The Court: Asked and answered.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right.
Mr. Mesereau: And who arranged for you to meet with Janet Arvizo and Jay Jackson at an apartment in West Los Angeles?
Jamie Masada: Nobody arranged it.
Mr. Mesereau: Somebody must have, right?
Jamie Masada: No. I mean, I call up --
Mr. Mesereau: You just ended up there?
Jamie Masada: Do you want me to tell you how I did? I called. I wanted to find out how Gavin -- how he's doing. So I want to see his physical -- how his face, everything is okay. I said, “I'll come and drop by. I have time to drop by and come see you”.
Mr. Mesereau: Without saying what anybody told you, did you discuss this case in Jay Jackson's apartment with Jay and Janet?
Jamie Masada: No.
Mr. Mesereau: This topic never came up?
Jamie Masada: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you know where to call to arrange the meeting?
Jamie Masada: I have Janet's cell number, and I have Jay's number.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, in 1993, you told the sheriffs that you had introduced the Arvizos to Adam Sandler, correct?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as vague. 1993?
Jamie Masada: 1993?
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me, pardon me, pardon me. I'm sorry. Counsel is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: In 2003 --
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- you told the sheriffs you had introduced the Arvizos to Adam Sandler, correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when did you do that?
Jamie Masada: Now, let's define a couple of things, because I don't want to get in a corner again. Arvizo, what do you mean by “Arvizo”? Describe what you mean by “Arvizo”. I mean, who you mean. Give me the name of the people you want to know so I can give you direct answer, if you don't mind, please.
Mr. Mesereau: Any Arvizo that you introduced to celebrity Adam Sandler.
Jamie Masada: Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when did you introduce Gavin to Adam Sandler?
Jamie Masada: The date? I don't know the date.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when?
Jamie Masada: God, I know I drove him to Sony Studio. I talked to Adam, and he said, “Bring him over”. I took him to Sony Studios. Adam took him to lunch, took me and Gavin to lunch, and then after that we went to his office. Do you want to know more?
Mr. Mesereau: Sure.
Jamie Masada: Okay. (Laughter.)
Jamie Masada: I'll go ahead. Then we went to his office. Then we played, sit down on the couch, played basketball with Gavin. And Rob Schneider was there. And then at that point Adam Sandler gave Gavin a little T.V., a Sony T.V. with a little battery and everything on it. And Gavin said, “Oh, God, he gave me a T.V”. I said, “Go ahead and say thank you to him”, and that was it.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did Gavin ever see Adam Sandler again?
Jamie Masada: Not as far as I know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you indicated that you organized a blood drive for Gavin, right?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Did that take place at The Laugh Factory?
Jamie Masada: We put a name on marquee. We put a sign in the door. Anybody comes in, if they have O negative, that they go give blood, they tell me they did it, we let them come in free. They can have free drinks, whatever, all of that stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some time did you ever learn that Michael Jackson had arranged a blood drive for Gavin as well?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence, and lack of foundation, and hearsay.
The Court: Overruled.
Jamie Masada: That's the first time I heard.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't know about that?
Jamie Masada: No, sir, I'm sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know someone named Philip Palmer from KABC in Los Angeles?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ever introduce Philip Palmer to any of the Arvizo family?
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when was that?
Jamie Masada: The time Gavin was in bad need of blood, and he came to hospital. I was interviewed by Philip Palmer, and we talk about he needed blood. And Phillip Palmer show that thing on ABC.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you introduce any of the Arvizos to any other newscaster that you can recall?
Jamie Masada: Newscaster. God, there were a few of them. Maybe Patrick Press (sic), Patrick Press (sic) from FOX TV, they did a documentary. PBS, they did a documentary on Laugh Factory comedy camp. Their newscasters or producer of all of that, they were there. They were introduced. Who else? A lady from FOX was introduced to Janet. And Fritz Coleman. I forgot his name. Fritz Coleman. Who else? Really I'm going blank. There might be more people.
Mr. Mesereau: You said that Mr. Press (sic) had something to do with a documentary for PBS, correct?
Jamie Masada: What?
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Press (sic) had something to do with a documentary for PBS, right?
Jamie Masada: No, he did not.
Mr. Mesereau: You did mention a documentary, didn't you?
Jamie Masada: Yes, he did a documentary on the comedy camp for FOX, for FOX T.V.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jamie Masada: And his name was Patrick Press (sic), and he did it on the family. He did it on the -- if you want to get the tape, he did the whole thing on the family, where they were living, and what they were doing, what trouble they had, all of that. He did a whole -- you could get the tape. It's a wonderful tape. I saw --
Mr. Mesereau: This is the Arvizo family, correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir. Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately what year did this documentary on the Arvizo family appear on television?
Jamie Masada: You're asking a question that I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Just approximately.
Jamie Masada: Huh?
Mr. Mesereau: Just approximately. I'm not asking for a specific date.
Jamie Masada: Maybe -- maybe in -- in '99, 2000. I'm not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, was Gavin ill when that documentary was produced?
Jamie Masada: I know PBS, the documentary they did, Gavin was sick, because PBS -- Carol Thompson went with me to the hospital and taped Gavin in the hospital. I know that. That's, what, in 2000, I think or 2001. Or 2000. Yeah, 2000. And Patrick Press (sic) -- now, let me -- I want to make sure I'm -- you know, get my date -- Patrick Press (sic)start doing the documentary in the club --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jamie Masada: -- for FOX TV. And I believe he did some add-up to it later on for FOX from -- from when Gavin was sick. I'm not sure. You get the tape, you can see better than me. I'll tell you about it. Get the tape and all of you can review it --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jamie Masada: -- instead of asking me about it.
Mr. Mesereau: I want to ask you what you know about it. Okay?
Jamie Masada: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: So the PBS documentary on the Arvizos is something separate from the FOX documentary you just discussed, correct?
Jamie Masada: PBS, they did a documentary, two hours documentary.
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Jamie Masada: On The Laugh Factory comedy camp that is going to be -- let me give a plug to everybody watching. It's going to be on the Comedy Central or E! TV, so watch it. It's two hours documentary on Laugh Factory comedy camp.
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Jamie Masada: And wasn't only to Arvizo, but Arvizo -- and Gavin was part of that as he was sick. And he was part of following me, what I do all day, where I go, what I do, all of that stuff, with the comedy camp.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jamie Masada: And FOX TV was particularly on Arvizo.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, okay. Now, part of the -- of the PBS documentary included you visiting the hospital to see Gavin, right?
Jamie Masada: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And it also included other material on the Arvizo family, correct?
Jamie Masada: No, I think you're getting everything confused. You're getting like me.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm just -- (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: All right. All right. Did the -- did the PBS documentary -- maybe you should ask me questions, I think.
Jamie Masada: At this point I should. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: Did the PBS documentary --
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- include anything about the Arvizo family, other than your visits to the hospital to see Gavin --
Jamie Masada: No.
Mr. Mesereau: -- to your knowledge?
Jamie Masada: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Then you had the FOX documentary, correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was filmed after the PBS documentary, right?
Jamie Masada: No, you're getting confused. Before.
Mr. Mesereau: Before it?
Jamie Masada: Yeah. Because the '99 --
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jamie Masada: -- Gavin and Star and Davellin, they were all in the comedy camp.
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Jamie Masada: And Patrick Press (sic) came in to do the documentary; “Let us show on the news” what I do about the comedy camp.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jamie Masada: And that's -- he start it. But I think PBS documentary started 2000. Year 2000, we were doing the comedy camp, so don't get them confused. So PBS is different from -- what you call -- Patrick Press (sic). It happened the year the Arvizo, they were in the comedy camp.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And that's before Gavin got ill?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Did you arrange for Press (sic) to do that documentary?
Jamie Masada: I really don't know how we came about. My office did. I have no idea how it came about. I really don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: How did the Arvizos end up in that documentary, if you know?
Jamie Masada: I have no idea.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you recommend that they be in that documentary?
Jamie Masada: I think I have a vague idea. No, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know how many of the Arvizo family members were in that documentary?
Jamie Masada: It was all three of them, they were.
Mr. Mesereau: All three of the children?
Jamie Masada: The children, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And were they performing in that documentary?
Jamie Masada: Yes, they were a little bit performing, as I recall. Now, don't corner me. As I recall.
Mr. Mesereau: You're in the documentary, too?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir. I'm the star.
Mr. Mesereau: That's what I figured. Okay. The second documentary --
Jamie Masada: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me. There are a lot of documentaries going on here, because there are a few more also, right?
Jamie Masada: Hopefully. God willing. Why not?
Mr. Mesereau: One of the documentaries involving the Arvizo family came about because Janet asked you to do it, correct?
Jamie Masada: Janet asked me to do it?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as vague as to which documentary he's referring to.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Jamie Masada: I really don't recall if Janet asked me anything. If she did, I don't recall it.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know one way or the other?
Jamie Masada: Really, I don't. At this point, I don't recall it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, did Philip Palmer --
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- on KABC announce a blood drive only, or a fund-raiser, to your knowledge?
Jamie Masada: To my knowledge -- oh, God, you get me cornered again here. What -- I really don't -- I think it was mostly blood drive. I'm not sure. Again, don't quote me on it.
Mr. Mesereau: And -- I would never quote you. Don't worry about it.
Jamie Masada: Good.
Mr. Mesereau: It was your idea --
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- to introduce the Arvizos to Michael Jackson, correct?
Jamie Masada: No, it wasn't my idea.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it Gavin's idea?
Jamie Masada: It was Gavin's idea.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And because Gavin asked you, you called Neverland, correct?
Jamie Masada: Gavin was -- I was encouraging him to eat.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jamie Masada: And he asked me -- he was watching T.V. He said, “Michael is my idol. How can I meet him? Can you arrange it?” And I want -- at that point I want to say, “I'll make a wish come true. Yeah, I could do anything. You want me to help, I'll help”. And I want to encourage him, “Eat, eat, eat”. I say, “Yeah, I'll go do it, I'll go do it”.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told the Santa Barbara Sheriffs in your telephone -- excuse me. You told the District Attorney investigator in December of 2003 that you did it because Michael does good stuff for kids, right?
Jamie Masada: I believe so. Did I say that? If I said it, I believe him.
Mr. Mesereau: I can show you the transcript.
Jamie Masada: No, I'm sure I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And was it your understanding that you were the first person to make any contact between the Arvizos and Michael Jackson?
Jamie Masada: No way. I do not know was the first person. God knows who did. Maybe Michael just watched the T.V. and felt good in his heart. He call him. I have no idea.
Mr. Mesereau: To this day, you have never met Michael Jackson?
Jamie Masada: No. This is the first time I've seen him. (To the defendant) How are you?
The Defendant: (Indicating).
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you learned at some point that the Arvizos made contact with comedian Chris Tucker, right?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you learn about that?
Jamie Masada: I didn't -- I didn't learn about it. I introduce him to Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: When was that?
Jamie Masada: In my club.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when; do you know?
Jamie Masada: I have no idea of the date again.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you learn at some point that Janet and Davellin were calling and asking for Chris Tucker's car?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as assuming facts not in evidence, as well as relevance, as well as lack of foundation and hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know anything about any efforts by any Arvizos to obtain a car from Chris?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Irrelevant and hearsay; lack of foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the D.A. investigator in '93 that Chris Tucker took -- I mean in --
Mr. Zonen: '93?
Mr. Mesereau: I keep saying that.
Mr. Mesereau: 2003; you kept --
Jamie Masada: You --
Mr. Mesereau: Let me rephrase that. You told the District Attorney investigator in 2003 that Chris Tucker took the Arvizos shopping, correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know when that happened?
Jamie Masada: I have no idea the date. And I remember what Chris Tucker told me.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you learn about that?
Jamie Masada: Chris Tucker has told me, he said, “Jamie, I love those kids” --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Jamie Masada: So I don't answer it, Your Honor?
The Court: No.
Jamie Masada: Okay. Good.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever go on one of those shopping trips with Chris Tucker and the Arvizos?
Jamie Masada: No. I didn't have time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Objection, assumes facts not in evidence that there were shopping trips with Chris Tucker and the Arvizos.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Motion to strike the answer.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Rob Schneider ever giving gifts to the Arvizos?
Mr. Zonen: That's a “yes” or “no” question, I believe.
The Court: Counsel, if you have an objection, make it.
Mr. Zonen: Lack of foundation, Your Honor.
The Court: Foundation; sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you introduce the Arvizos to comedian Rob Schneider?
Jamie Masada: Arvizo -- you got to identify. Meaning Gavin?
Mr. Mesereau: Any Arvizo.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as vague.
Jamie Masada: Yeah. Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you introduce Gavin Arvizo to comedian Rob Schneider?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did any other member of the Arvizo family meet Rob Schneider at any time?
Jamie Masada: Yeah, I remember Louise and David, they came to -- they wanted to meet all the celebrity. They want to meet Rob Schneider and -- what was the name? Adam Sandler. They came, “Oh, can we get introduce him? And I said, “Guys, this is for the kids. That's not for you guys. You're grown up. Come on”.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever present when comedian Rob Schneider was with Gavin Arvizo?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I was.
Mr. Mesereau: And where was that?
Jamie Masada: It was at lunchtime. We had a lunch, three of us, four of us together. And then we went to his room at Sony and we played -- we sat on the couch and played ball, basketball towards the wall. We throw balls to the wall.
Mr. Mesereau: On that occasion, did you see Rob Schneider give gifts to Gavin of any kind?
Jamie Masada: I saw Adam give him. No, I don't remember if he gave him, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, that's the day that Adam Sandler and Rob Schneider were with Gavin, right?
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You were there. And somebody gave him a television, right?
Jamie Masada: I told him Adam Sandler.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see Rob give him anything?
Jamie Masada: Rob gave him a hug.
Mr. Mesereau: Anything else?
Jamie Masada: I don't know. I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some point, you paid for the Arvizo rent on their home, correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes. Not Arvizo home, David's home, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, David was married to Janet at the time, correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: So why do you want to single out David and not Janet if you're paying both of their rent?
Jamie Masada: I don't single out. Because Janet wasn't asking me. David asked me for rent.
Mr. Mesereau: David asked you; said they didn't have rent money?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And you paid rent for Janet, David and the children, correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How many times did you do that?
Jamie Masada: A couple of times -- a couple of times I think I gave him cash. I don't recall. I'm not sure. A couple of times.
Mr. Mesereau: In total, how much cash do you think you gave the Arvizos?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; “the Arvizos”.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, Your Honor --
Mr. Zonen: Vague.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll withdraw. I'll lay a better foundation.
Mr. Mesereau: During the time that Janet and David were married and living together --
Jamie Masada: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: -- and during the approximate time that you paid their rent, for Janet, David and the children, how much money in total do you think you gave the Arvizo family?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; “Arvizo family”. It's who he gave the money to.
The Court: Overruled. He asked for a total of all of them.
Jamie Masada: I very openly -- I don't do charity for tax write-offs so I have a count of how much to give. I give money from my heart. I never write them as a tax write-off. So I don't know how much I gave him. I gave him money whenever they ask me. It's not a tax write-off. I do it from my heart. Some people, they know how much they give to this, how much they give to that. I have no idea.
Mr. Mesereau: Can you estimate in total how much you gave the Arvizo family?
Jamie Masada: I have no idea. You know, I mean the time they come in the office, “I need money for my gas, I need money for food, I need this”, and you give them 50, 20, 30, 40, 50. Whatever you have in your pocket, you give to them. You don't sit down, “How much was that? How much was that?” I don't count that. I go out there, I give to another person the same thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Obviously you were generous with them quite often.
Jamie Masada: Yes, I was.
Mr. Zonen: Objection as to “them” as vague.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Obviously you were very generous to the Arvizo family.
Mr. Zonen: Objection to “the Arvizo family” as vague.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, with all due respect, they're married and are living together.
Mr. Zonen: That assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: There has been an issue drawn in this case about who asked for money and who gets money. And that's why we have the objection. And I will sustain the objection, have you ask specifically who.
Mr. Mesereau: When you paid for the Arvizo rent, who did you give the money to?
Jamie Masada: Always to David.
Mr. Mesereau: When you paid for the karate and judo school, who were you helping out?
Jamie Masada: Gavin and Star.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was as a result of a phone call from Jay Jackson and Janet Arvizo, correct?
Jamie Masada: It was -- yes, a conversation with Jay Jackson, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Janet Arvizo, as you've already testified, was in the phone call, right?
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: David Arvizo was not in that phone call, correct?
Jamie Masada: No, he was not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you did testify that David often asked you for money, right?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many times, if you know, do you think he asked you for money?
Jamie Masada: I have no idea.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it a lot?
Jamie Masada: He would come in -- you know, I mean -- you know, the people didn't know -- you got to picture something here. The kid -- the family out of work. The kid is sick. You know, and they react. They don't have no money, they have no mean of living, and you try to help. You don't ask how many. I mean, if you give them -- you've been in that situation, the same as me, you help out, whatever it is. You don't count them, how many time, how many year, how many this. You give help to people and that's what it's about.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And if they obtained a large sum of money from any civil settlement, you didn't know about it, right?
Jamie Masada: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. The only message you were getting was these people are poor, right?
Jamie Masada: That's what I got, yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, at any time did you learn that David Arvizo worked for the Teamsters?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence; lack of foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn what David Arvizo's occupation was?
Jamie Masada: He said he used to work in a supermarket.
Mr. Mesereau: Anything else he told you about?
Jamie Masada: No, he said supermarket.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. He never told you he worked as a Teamster, did he?
Jamie Masada: No. What's a Teamster?
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know, right?
Jamie Masada: I have no idea.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. When do you think you introduced the Arvizos to George Lopez?
Jamie Masada: I have no date. I have no idea.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And is George Lopez a friend of yours?
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Still?
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And is Ann Lopez a friend of yours?
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last talk to them? Excuse me, let me rephrase that. When did you last talk to George Lopez?
Jamie Masada: I haven't talked to George Lopez almost maybe three, four, five months. I was in a wedding. I saw him. Martin Leasak wedding. His agent was getting married. I was the best friend for his agent at UTA, and George Lopez was there and a bunch of other stars were there. We sat down; hello, how are you; hug. The same thing.
Mr. Mesereau: You testified that you thought someone had made millions of dollars on the Bashir documentary, but that the Arvizo family had gotten nothing, right?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And you didn't think that was right, correct?
Jamie Masada: That was right?
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't think that was right?
Jamie Masada: No, my whole thing was, I saw they exploiting some underprivileged, underaged people that people in the media made a fortune out of that documentary. That was my personal belief. And they show this poor kid's face on that documentary, and the kids in the school calling him “fag”, “faggot”, I thought that was unfair.
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Jamie Masada: That was not fair there.
Mr. Mesereau: You thought that Bashir did an injustice?
Jamie Masada: I thought that Bashir did injustice.
Mr. Mesereau: Right. And you told Janet --
Jamie Masada: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: -- that she should go to a lawyer because “They're making millions and your family is getting nothing”?
Jamie Masada: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, that's certainly what you suggested earlier, wasn't it?
Jamie Masada: No. You got to listen to me or read it back what I said, okay?
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jamie Masada: What I said, I want to stop the people calling him names.
Mr. Mesereau: Uh-huh.
Jamie Masada: I did not say anything about money or anything. Don't bring that up. We were talking about what was unjustice was done. He used that and showed his picture on the T.V, every newspaper, every print media, from electronic to, you know, print media, they all have his picture. I said that was very unfair. I want to stop that, because I didn't want the kid go to gas station, the guy in gas station say, “Here is that faggot. He slept with Michael”. I did not want that happen to any of my kid, and I think that's unjustice.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling a District Attorney investigator that Martin Bashir made millions and these underprivileged kids didn't get a cent?
Jamie Masada: Yeah, I did. I still say it.
Mr. Mesereau: And one of the reasons you referred Janet to Attorney Bill Dickerman was you learned she had signed some document relating to the Bashir documentary, correct?
Jamie Masada: It was -- maybe was later on. Don't mix it up. Maybe it was later on that she said she signed -- the first time we went to Bill Dickerman, it was all about that kid show the picture on the documentary was unjustice. I wanted to stop newspaper, everywhere it is, we -- “Can we stop that?”
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did you learn at some point that Michael Jackson and Janet Arvizo had sued the British company that did the documentary in England?
Jamie Masada: I did not know that.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ever learn that Michael Jackson had sued for a number of reasons, including they put his children on the documentary?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as lack of foundation, and hearsay, and relevance.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Janet ever inform you that she was involved in a lawsuit with Michael Jackson against a British production company?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Hearsay, lack of foundation, relevance.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling a District Attorney investigator they made money and they didn't give anything to the Arvizos?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Overruled.
Jamie Masada: Again, you got to question again.
Mr. Mesereau: Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling a District Attorney investigator in 2003 that with respect to Bashir's company, they made money, and didn't give the Arvizos anything?
Jamie Masada: How could I make that comment? I'm still making that comment, too. How could I?
Mr. Mesereau: And you felt that Bashir and his company had taken advantage of an underprivileged kid, right?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Jamie Masada: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How many meetings with Janet and Attorney Bill Dickerman did you attend?
Jamie Masada: Hmm, God. I think maybe about four or -- maybe four, five, or three. Four. I think I remember four of them.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you first meet Attorney Bill Dickerman?
Jamie Masada: When did I ever met him?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jamie Masada: He became my attorney a long time ago. He represent me, and I thought he did a very good job.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many years had he represented you before you introduced the Arvizos to him?
Jamie Masada: I would say over five, six, seven, eight.
Mr. Mesereau: Had he represented you in various lawsuits?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: How many lawsuits?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; irrelevant.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times have you testified under oath before today?
Jamie Masada: Testify under -- maybe three times. Three times, four times.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember a case where you sued someone named Roy Kavin?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that?
Jamie Masada: God, that was my neighbor in my club, who came in, he did something to my club. I don't know. I can't remember the date.
Mr. Mesereau: You testified under oath in a deposition in that case, correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember you were asked questions about when you became an American citizen?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as irrelevant.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember your not recalling when you went to high school?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; irrelevant.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember your not knowing where you worked?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; irrelevant.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember testifying under oath you didn't know when you became a comedian?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object to the content of this deposition in total. Irrelevant.
The Court: Sustained. No further questions unless you make an offer of proof to the Court.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, I can prove that this witness --
The Court: Outside the presence of the jury.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall at any time talking to Attorney Larry Feldman?
Jamie Masada: I don't think I spoke to him personally. I don't think I met him, spoke to him. I went to his office.
Mr. Mesereau: You went to his office?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you go to Attorney Larry Feldman's office?
Jamie Masada: One time Bill Dickerman call me. He said he have -- he and Larry Feldman, they was going to meet with Arvizo and if I would be kind enough to, you know, bring them there. I say, “Yeah, I will be more than happy to do it”.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you participate in any meeting between any of the Arvizos and Attorney Larry Feldman?
Jamie Masada: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: By the way, you've testified about your concern that Gavin was being made fun of by schoolmates after the Bashir documentary, right?
Jamie Masada: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you remember telling a District Attorney investigator that, as a result of that, Janet wanted her kids to go to a private school, and you told her you would help send them?
Jamie Masada: They were thinking about to send him, the kid, to a school that they would not make fun of him. And they were -- they did -- they were deciding to do it. And I said, “What's holding you guys back? If you guys need any money for private school, I volunteer, give you whatever you need”.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But Janet at that point wanted her kids in a private school, correct?
Jamie Masada: Didn't want a private school. Want him to be somewhere, the people, they don't make fun of her son, calling him “faggot”.
Mr. Mesereau: But you told the D.A. investigator that Janet wanted her kids in a private school, told you about it, and you said you would help send them, correct?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever help send the Arvizo children to a private school?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: When was that?
Jamie Masada: I have no idea. After Martin Bashir, and the kids, they call him “faggot”.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that when she was in a relationship with Major Jay Jackson, to your knowledge?
Jamie Masada: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know what his income was at that point?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled.
Jamie Masada: No idea.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever ask Major Jay Jackson, “How much do you make?”
Jamie Masada: No, it is not my business --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jamie Masada: -- how much he makes.
Mr. Mesereau: How long did you help with the private school?
Jamie Masada: I just wrote him one check. It was very little money. Very, very little money. I just give them one check.
Mr. Mesereau: And again, that was after the Bashir documentary, right?
Jamie Masada: Yeah. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And would it be safe to say that was in the year 2003?
Jamie Masada: If that's what's -- the year it happened, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, you talked to an investigator for the Santa Barbara District Attorney's Office about Maury Povich. Do you remember that?
Jamie Masada: I don't recall it, but if you said so.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall doing that?
Jamie Masada: I said I don't recall it, but if you said so.
Mr. Mesereau: No, I'm not telling you what to say.
Jamie Masada: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't recall ever discussing Maury Povich?
Jamie Masada: I might have. I have hundred things going every day. Do you remember three years ago what you did, what you said, who you talked to? No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you want to cross-examine me? (Laughter.)
Jamie Masada: No, I'm just saying reality. Let's look at reality of things. We are human beings. You don't remember what you said every day. We are human beings.
Mr. Mesereau: I understand. But if you don't remember --
Jamie Masada: No, I'm saying probably I did, but I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How long were you in Larry Feldman's office?
Jamie Masada: Maybe about -- not even his office. I was never in his office. I was never in his office. Describe his office. What do you mean by “office”?
Mr. Mesereau: What do you think “office” means?
Jamie Masada: “Office” meaning if I go to Judge office, he have his office up there. This is courtroom. This is waiting room. I was in waiting room. I never went to Judge office. That's why I call it Judge office. That's a waiting room. I was in the waiting room. I never went to his office. That's what I meant by “office”.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you were in Larry Feldman's waiting room while the Arvizos were in Larry Feldman's office, right?
Jamie Masada: No, they were sitting waiting with me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jamie Masada: We waited there.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point did Attorney Larry Feldman come out and see all of you?
Jamie Masada: No, somebody, I don't know who, what, somebody came out, said, “We going to take you to conference room”. They take me to conference room. And after we went to conference room, I -- I told Janet that I felt uncomfortable, I want to leave, and then at that point they went -- they went to talk. And somebody came, I don't know if it was Larry. Whoever it was, they said, “Jamie, you could leave”.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you leave?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Attorney Larry Feldman again?
Jamie Masada: On T.V.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever personally see him again?
Jamie Masada: No, I never saw him personally.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, let me just go back to your meetings with Attorney Bill Dickerman and the Arvizos, okay?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: The first meeting at Bill Dickerman's office, correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir. No, not in his office. Again, in a conference room. Let me make a correction.
Mr. Mesereau: The first meeting is in the offices of Attorney Bill Dickerman in a conference room, correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And present are Attorney Bill Dickerman and the Arvizos, correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Did anyone call the police at that meeting?
Jamie Masada: Not as far as I knew.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. The second meeting you had with the Arvizos and Attorney Bill Dickerman was at The Laugh Factory, correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And nobody called the police at that meeting, correct?
Jamie Masada: No, sir. It was suggested.
Mr. Mesereau: Nobody called the police at that meeting, correct?
Jamie Masada: And I said it was suggested. Not called.
Mr. Mesereau: The third meeting between Attorney Bill Dickerman and the Arvizos was at The Laugh Factory, right?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Nobody called the police at that meeting, correct?
Jamie Masada: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you say there was another meeting with Attorney Bill Dickerman and the Arvizos that you were somehow involved in?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And where was that?
Jamie Masada: That was -- I was going to -- I was going to watch Gavin and Star. They were playing on the baseball team --
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, I'd request the witness just respond to the question.
Jamie Masada: What was -- did I say wrong?
The Court: The question was, “And where was that?” You had another meeting.
Mr. Mesereau: Where was the -- I'm sorry, Your Honor. I'll rephrase.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did the fourth meeting involving you, the Arvizos and Attorney Bill Dickerman take place?
Jamie Masada: It was in the restaurant in Farmers Market in Los Angeles, California. And then from there, we went to baseball team behind farmers market.
Mr. Mesereau: So the meeting between you, the Arvizos and Attorney Bill Dickerman took place in farmers market in Los Angeles?
Jamie Masada: Yeah. Again, can you describe what you mean “meeting”? To clarify that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet with Attorney Bill Dickerman and the Arvizo family at the farmers market in Los Angeles?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: That meeting occurred after the three prior meetings between the Arvizos and Bill Dickerman that you've described, true?
Jamie Masada: I think so. I'm not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: And nobody called the police at that meeting, correct?
Jamie Masada: No, sir. No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point you learned that Attorney Bill Dickerman had contacted Attorney Larry Feldman, right?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was because Dickerman told you --
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as speculative or hearsay.
Mr. Mesereau: State of mind, Your Honor.
Mr. Zonen: Well, again, he's speculating as to another person's belief.
The Court: He told you he was going to use that state of mind on you quite a bit, remember? I didn't get the whole question. So I can't tell. You interrupted him, actually.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: Do you want to rephrase?
Mr. Mesereau: Sure, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point in time, you learned that Attorney Bill Dickerman, who had represented you for many years, had referred the Arvizos to Attorney Larry Feldman, right?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Hearsay; lack of foundation; also relevance as to this witness's testimony.
The Court: The objection's overruled. Did you learn that?
Jamie Masada: Did I learn Bill Dickerman introduce -- was talking to Larry Feldman?
The Court: And introduced the Arvizos.
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
The Court: Okay. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. Now, Mr. Masada, in one of your sheriff's interviews, you said you were involved in several fund-raising efforts on behalf of the Arvizo family, right?
Jamie Masada: I said -- I don't recall how many times. I said about two, three of them, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it two or three?
Jamie Masada: I think it was two. After I was thinking about it, it was two.
Mr. Mesereau: And did both of those take place at The Laugh Factory?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you told the Santa Barbara Sheriffs that you made arrangements with the Arvizo family to receive door charge moneys on several occasions, right?
Jamie Masada: “On several occasions”. Maybe I said twice.
Mr. Mesereau: You told them “several occasions”, didn't you?
Jamie Masada: Maybe I made a mistake.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you arranged for the Arvizos to be at the entrance to The Laugh Factory and allow them to get door charge moneys, correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the Santa Barbara Sheriffs that it was four nights in total, right?
Jamie Masada: I counted the blood drive and all of that stuff. It was two nights.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You said on each occasion David and the children would man the front door and personally collect the entry fees from customers, right?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know how much they collected, do you?
Jamie Masada: Not really. I remember one particular one, the first one it actually was. At the time they have nurses and everybody from hospital coming in, and one of the nurses came in back door, and knocked the door, and she told me, she said, “Well, I want to come to the club, but I don't have money with me. I thought they didn't -- I didn't know it was going to cost money to come in”. And I remember that I gave her some cash. I said, “Go ahead. For you, here's some cash. Go in front and walk in, and here's the money”. I remember that. Some of the stuff like that stands out in my mind.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the Santa Barbara Sheriffs that the Arvizo family kept all of the money collected at the door, right?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: You said that you and the Laugh Factory absorbed the operating, employee and performer costs, right?
Jamie Masada: Some of the performers, they are -- most of the time they are -- if I ask them -- they are big comics, like Bob Saget, Howie Mandell, all of these guys. They come in, they don't get money. But sometime you pay them, see the money. Pay some of the people, they need money. You know, you give them money. But usually those -- those costs is covered by the time -- one person, you know, decide to come to the club, they are thirsty, they want to have a drink, watch the show. They have a drink, and that costs usually covers that.
Mr. Mesereau: But just to get back to my question, you and the Laugh Factory, which you own --
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: -- absorb the operating, employee and performer costs for those evenings, right?
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told the Santa Barbara Sheriffs there was no accounting for how much money was gathered on any of the evenings in question, right?
Jamie Masada: Meaning Gavin, or what are you talking about? The money, how much they got?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. You told the sheriffs there was no accounting for what they got, correct?
Jamie Masada: No. Yes, absolutely.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the sheriffs you didn't think any of the fund-raisers exceeded $3,000, right?
Jamie Masada: He asked me, he said, “What do you think? A thousand? 2000? 3,000?” I said, “I don't think it was ever more than 3,000”. That's what I said to him.
Mr. Mesereau: And you also told the Santa Barbara Sheriffs that you thought the family may have received monetary donations from media exposure through people you knew, correct?
Jamie Masada: On one occasion, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Which occasion was that?
Jamie Masada: I remember Fritz Coleman, he did something on -- for blood drive, and somehow had said something about some kind of financial aid or something. It was a bank account or something. But I'm not sure. I wasn't involved with it. I don't know anything about it.
Mr. Mesereau: When you say “bank account”, what are you referring to?
Jamie Masada: Something -- I have no idea. Some kind of thing with Fritz Coleman. I don't know. He put it on the screen or something. I have no idea. I heard about it. I'm not 100 percent sure. I'm just talking about it. I don't know exactly. Maybe I should say I don't really exactly know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling anyone that you had gone to the hospital and paid some of Gavin's medical bills?
Jamie Masada: No. There was a person from press. They did that, and I find out about it. Somebody told me about it. And I called there, she said she's going to retract it. And she never retracted. She kind of mislead me. But I never said that.
Mr. Mesereau: So you were misquoted by someone in the press to that effect?
Jamie Masada: Yeah, the press, they want to get attention to another paper or television, they say stuff like that. You are aware of, right?
Mr. Mesereau: You're saying you never told anyone in the press that you had personally paid for medical bills for Gavin?
Jamie Masada: I never -- I helped them out. I never paid for medical.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And never told that to anybody in the press, correct?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the Santa Barbara Sheriffs that on more than one occasion Janet and Jay Jackson approached you for assistance, correct?
Mr. Zonen: Judge, I'm going to object as hearsay. Unless it's a prior inconsistent statement.
The Court: I'll sustain the objection.
Mr. Mesereau: Periodically, Jay Jackson and Janet would ask you for assistance, right?
Jamie Masada: No, only twice Jay ask me. And he didn't ask me for assistance. I volunteered. Don't change it around.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you just said he asked you, didn't you?
Jamie Masada: We were talking about it. He said they didn't have enough money to pay for the thing. And I said, “I'll pay for it”. He didn't say, “Give me the money”. This is a different thing. If you ask me for money, it's different.
Mr. Mesereau: What do you think he was suggesting when he told you he didn't have money to pay for these things?
Jamie Masada: Meaning maybe they didn't have money. You don't know. I don't know. How do you know if they didn't have money? Maybe they didn't have. Maybe they were broke by that point. I have no idea.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you issue checks to Gavin, Star and Davellin?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many checks did you issue to Gavin, if you know?
Jamie Masada: I think one time they performed, the time to make them become -- the only -- you know, a lot of people, they go around, they say, “I'm a comedian. I'm a this. I'm an actor. I'm a this, that, and that”. They just call themselves. They never get paid for it. But to make performance, like Gavin, Star, and Davellin, to make them a performer, you pay them as a comic. And I did pay them as a comic one time.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, the government prosecutor, Mr. Zonen, showed you two checks --
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- that you had written to David Arvizo, correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: But you told the Santa Barbara Sheriffs that you wrote a check to Janet or Jay on one occasion, correct?
Jamie Masada: Yeah, I think so. I did to Jay or Janet, I'm not sure which one, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told them the check was endorsed by Janet Arvizo?
Jamie Masada: I never said it was endorsed. I don't look at the back of the check, whose endorsement.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you the police report?
Jamie Masada: The check? The police report, I don't care what -- I don't look at the back of the check. I don't look at the back of the check. Maybe you misunderstood.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me just ask the question. You just have to answer it. It's being recorded.
Jamie Masada: Sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection --
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- about your telling the Santa Barbara Sheriffs --
Jamie Masada: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: -- that Janet Arvizo endorsed that check if I show you the police report?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object to references and statements to Santa Barbara Sheriffs as hearsay, unless they're prior consistent statements.
The Court: The objection is overruled. He's asking about refreshing his memory.
Jamie Masada: I don't recall that. I do not recall that.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you what they say you said?
Jamie Masada: No, it doesn't make any difference. I know what I said. I don't recall it. So you can say anything you want.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever writing a check for Shana Traunfeld?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And that check was to purchase a bed for the Arvizo children, correct?
Jamie Masada: “Arvizo children”. Describe what “Arvizo children” means.
Mr. Mesereau: What do you think it means?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as vague.
Jamie Masada: My --
The Court: He's asking for more specific names, please.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever issue a check --
Jamie Masada: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: -- to Shana Traunfeld --
Jamie Masada: Yeah, who was my assistant.
Mr. Mesereau: -- for the purpose of purchasing a bed for any of the three Arvizo children?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: When was that?
Jamie Masada: The time we went up there for Christmas. I went up there to see them, give them something for Christmas. I saw the kid, half of his face was swollen up. He had a lot of scar on his face, and they were sleeping on the floor. I felt bad. I went and told them immediately, “Buy them a bunk bed. At least get them something going”. They were living on the floor. God.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever give any member of the prosecution team a copy of that check?
Jamie Masada: I don't -- my office supposed to give it.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Prosecutor Zonen ever ask you if you could give him a copy of that check?
Jamie Masada: Mr. Zonen himself? Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Does Prosecutor Zonen ever ask you to give him copies of any other checks that you wrote to any member of the Arvizo family besides David?
Jamie Masada: Okay. No. The prosecution, Mr. Zonen himself, or all of the guys? You got to declare. Mr. Zonen you're talking about? Only Mr. Zonen? Or of his team?
Mr. Mesereau: Only Mr. Zonen.
Jamie Masada: Mr. Zonen, no, I don't think so. I don't recall he called me asking me that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall any member of the prosecution team ever asking you for copies of checks you wrote to members of the Arvizo family other than David?
Jamie Masada: Yes. They're people, they ask me.
Mr. Mesereau: Who?
Jamie Masada: I don't remember his name.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you give copies of those checks to them?
Jamie Masada: I think I -- I told my office to give them whatever they need.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if that ever happened?
Jamie Masada: I think it happened. I'm not sure. I think it did happen.
Mr. Mesereau: Did any of these prosecutors sitting at the table ever ask you for copies of those checks?
Jamie Masada: Those three people? No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. They only wanted checks involving David, correct?
Mr. Zonen: Objection as to what they wanted as speculative.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it, Your Honor.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: In truth, Mr. Masada --
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- the prosecution in this case only wanted copies of checks you wrote to David?
Mr. Zonen: Objection as to what they wanted and speculative on his part.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You said you told someone at your office to give members of the prosecution checks you'd written to the Arvizos, is that correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Who did you ask at your office to do that?
Jamie Masada: I told my assistant or my accountant to find the checks and, you know, make a copy and give it to them.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you wrote other checks to members of the Arvizo family that you can't locate, correct?
Jamie Masada: I don't know what you mean by that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling the Santa Barbara Sheriffs that there were other checks you wrote as gifts to the Arvizos that you can't find?
Jamie Masada: That was the three checks of the $50, I think it was, that I did put them -- I don't know if they ever found them.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't you say you could not retrieve copies of those checks?
Jamie Masada: Yeah, I did. I ask -- I ask my accountant, and he said, “I don't know. I don't know where they are”. And he said, “Wherever they are, I can't find them”. And I said, “Go find them”.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever find them?
Jamie Masada: I really -- I think they did. I'm not sure. I'm not going to say something. I'm not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: In his direct examination, the prosecutor didn't refer to any of those checks, did he?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as irrelevant.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You indicated that you owned more than one Laugh Factory; is that correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And where are The Laugh Factories you own located?
Jamie Masada: One is in Los Angeles. One is in New York City.
Mr. Mesereau: Any others?
Jamie Masada: One we building in Long Beach. One we did have in Hawaii.
Mr. Mesereau: Any others?
Jamie Masada: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: So how many do you own at the present?
Jamie Masada: Two.
Mr. Mesereau: And you're building a couple of others?
Jamie Masada: No. I said --
Mr. Mesereau: What did you just say?
Jamie Masada: You got to listen.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jamie Masada: One we building in Long Beach. And one is -- in Hawaii is closed.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jamie Masada: So we have right now, present time, two.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right.
Jamie Masada: Do you want the address for them?
Mr. Mesereau: I'll talk to you after court. We can give --
Jamie Masada: You are there. Me and you can have a comedy team.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. All right. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last talk to Jay Jackson?
Jamie Masada: Jay Jackson. God. God, Jay Jackson, maybe about three, four -- three months, four months ago. How am I -- Christmas was -- I will say about three, four months ago.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did you talk to him?
Jamie Masada: On the phone.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did he call you?
Jamie Masada: He might have. I'm not sure if I call him, you know. You get on a day's routine, you don't remember, if he call me or I call him.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss this case?
Jamie Masada: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Said nothing about it?
Jamie Masada: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Never came up?
Jamie Masada: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was Janet involved in that discussion?
Jamie Masada: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when did you last talk to Janet by phone?
Jamie Masada: I think you asked me that already.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last talk to Janet by phone?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
Mr. Mesereau: I don't know if I did ask that.
Jamie Masada: Yeah, you did, the look on your face. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: If I did, I apologize.
Jamie Masada: You did.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last talk to her by phone?
Mr. Zonen: Had there been a ruling by the Court, Your Honor?
The Court: I don't remember. (Laughter.)
Jamie Masada: You too. We just go back and forth, you know.
The Court: Go ahead and answer.
Jamie Masada: Three, four months ago. You know, I have no idea. Three, four months. Could be before Christmas, right before Christmas.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me ask you this: When did you last talk to Janet about this case?
Mr. Zonen: Assumes facts not in evidence that he ever talked to Janet about this case.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it.
Mr. Zonen: And vague as to what “this case” is.
The Court: He did say that he talked to Janet about the case a long time ago. You can rephrase it.
Jamie Masada: So where are we?
Mr. Mesereau: When did you ever discuss this case with Janet?
Jamie Masada: It was a long, long time ago. About maybe -- I don't know.
The Court: See, I told you.
Jamie Masada: I don't recall the date. I'm sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm not asking you for the date. I'm asking you just to give your best estimate as to when you last talked to Janet about this case.
Jamie Masada: And I'm really -- I want to be as open as I can. I can't remember. I spoke to her one time. I don't remember when was it, what month was it, what year was it. I know I spoke to her.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember discussing with David Arvizo the fact that The Laugh Factory has a charity committee?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: When did that discussion take place?
Jamie Masada: He came to my office and he was -- keep asking me for more money, and more money, and more money, and more money, and more money. And at one point, I said, “Well, if you need more money, what you have to do” -- because I have something, it's called Laugh Factory Academy of Comedy and Arts. That's a -- I put money myself into that account, and I help a -- a comedian, for example, if their father died, if comedian sick, they don't have any money for their doctor bills or something, I write a check for them. And I say, “If you want more money”, because I wanted to try to tell him -- I didn't know how to say no to him. So that's why I say this. I say, “If you want to come to the committee, talk to the committee, and we take it from there”.
Mr. Mesereau: Can I have some? (Laughter.)
Jamie Masada: If you are -- with your job, with your earnings, if you get broke. I don't know how much you making. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You've testified about a truck that you learned that Michael Jackson had given to the Arvizo family, correct?
Jamie Masada: I never said “truck”. Never used the word “truck”.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you describe the vehicle?
Jamie Masada: It was what, a “sudan”. What do you call that car? I'm not too much fascinated by cars or monetary stuff. I don't know any of those stuff. I know a car was -- the car is S -- SUV, SIV, whatever it is. And it was a white car, you know. It's a big huge car. So it's a white car it was.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you learn about that?
Jamie Masada: David came in my office. He was very excited. He said Michael gave him a car. And I said, “Oh, that's wonderful”. And he said, “Come on, come on, come on, I show you”. And I said, “I'm in the middle -- I'm helping other kids”, this, this. And he said, “Come on. He waited there. And I went out outside, and we saw him. He park the car right in front of the fire hydrant, and I remember that, because I was, “You can't do that. That's against the law. You're going to get a ticket already”. And he show me, open the door, and I remember the car was white. And there was a T.V. on the dashboard. I remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you get in the car?
Jamie Masada: No, I looked in the car. The door, they opened the door, but I didn't get into the car and drive it around, no.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times did you see that car at The Laugh Factory?
Jamie Masada: You know, he would come to my office. A couple of times I saw him drive in that car, drive away, because he was -- he needed money for gas for this car, because he was telling me that particular car, Michael gave it to him, it lose a lot of gas, and he need more money for gas. So that's how he was getting more money from me.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling a Santa Barbara Sheriffs officer --
Jamie Masada: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: -- that you wrote Janet a check for Christmas?
Jamie Masada: Write Janet a check for Christmas. No, I don't recall that.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you a transcript of your interview?
Jamie Masada: I mean, I'm just saying I don't recall it.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it possibly help you recall it if I showed you a transcript of your interview?
Jamie Masada: I'm telling you, I don't recall. If I don't recall and you show me anything, I don't recall saying that.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't want to give it a try?
Jamie Masada: First of all, I have dyslexia. I can't see very good, so you're going to read it to me. If you want, bring it over.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell a Santa Barbara Sheriffs officer during a recorded interview, “I did write a check personally, 800, a thousand dollars, whatever, you know, not this Christmas, Christmas before that to Janet”. Do you remember saying anything like that?
Jamie Masada: Maybe I meant David. I wrote the check for David, $800. Maybe that's -- somehow I mix up the name. That could be.
Mr. Mesereau: You may have written a check to David for a thousand?
Jamie Masada: For 800 to a thousand, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall saying you gave Janet a check at any time?
Jamie Masada: I might have made a mistake, their name together.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay.
The Court: Let's take a break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: You know Louise Palanker, correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you first meet her?
Jamie Masada: Several years ago. She's -- she comes in. She volunteers, you know. She's -- she's a lady, she volunteers, you know, sometimes for charity, different stuff, especially times at Christmas, we do for homeless. She comes in, she dish up some food for homeless people. And she comes in, we do some services for high holidays, Jewish high holidays. That's what we do.
Mr. Mesereau: And would you call her a regular at The Laugh Factory?
Jamie Masada: No, she's not regular, what you describe regular, regular comics or regular --
Mr. Mesereau: Do you see her often?
Jamie Masada: I haven't seen her lately.
Mr. Mesereau: Is she a good friend of yours?
Jamie Masada: She's -- she's one of those ladies, she want to be a comic and you try to help her. And sometimes being -- trying to help them, you got to give them bad news. (Laughter.)
Jamie Masada: Like if I tell them they're not funny, they take it very personal.
Mr. Mesereau: I gather you told her she's not very funny.
Jamie Masada: Well, I -- let me tell you. I find you are more funny than she is. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: Could I join your comedy class? I'm in the wrong profession, I guess.
Jamie Masada: I think so. You got a job after this case is over. Come see me.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you learn Louise Palanker had donated $20,000 to the Arvizo family?
Jamie Masada: I think I told you about it. At the time I find out, I was going to find an apartment for Gavin, because he was coming out of the hospital and he needed a sanitated -- meaning the room, it had to be sanitation room, and I find out Louise went and wrote the check. She's a very rich woman. She wrote the check.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you learn about that?
Jamie Masada: I don't remember. I don't remember the date.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever come to you to talk about it?
Jamie Masada: No, she never talked about it. She -- I heard about it. She gave it to them, and I -- I thank her.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you thank her?
Jamie Masada: I don't remember. Some -- one of the conversations we had. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you learn at some point that she wrote two checks, not one?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as irrelevant, lack of foundation and hearsay.
The Bailiff: Your microphone's not on.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer. You may answer.
Jamie Masada: You want my answer? I'm sorry. Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when did you learn that?
Jamie Masada: I cannot recall. I -- sometime.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last see Louise?
Jamie Masada: Maybe about year, year and a half ago, two years ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss this case with her?
Jamie Masada: No. She called me, told me she came to the court and whatever, whatever. She did say that afterwards.
Mr. Mesereau: When was this?
Jamie Masada: I believe she was driving from the court home.
Mr. Mesereau: Was this last week?
Jamie Masada: Last week, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: She called you after she left court?
Jamie Masada: I think so. Sometime afterwards.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she discuss with you anything she had said in court?
Jamie Masada: She said that you have made this court like O.J.'s court or Robert Blake court, and you was changing the words around and you made it -- lied. You lied and you changed the words and took the stuff out of context, and she told me a bunch of stuff. And I said, “Well, hey, you go there, you tell the truth. That's what it's all about”, and I didn't want to hear it.
Mr. Mesereau: She complained to you that she had been secretly recorded by the sheriffs calling you a pathological liar, correct?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as irrelevant and argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Masada --
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- you've told the jury what she called to tell you about after court, correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And isn't it true that she called because she was worried that she had been recorded secretly by the sheriffs calling you a liar?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as lack of foundation. As well, argumentative and speculative as to what she was worried about.
The Court: It's not relevant. Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Your answer to that last question was not truthful, was it?
Mr. Zonen: What last question are you referring to? It was sustained, Your Honor, the last two questions.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Your answer to this jury under oath --
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- to the question about what Louise Palanker called you about after court was not the truth, was it?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; argumentative.
Jamie Masada: It was truth. I don't know what you're talking about. That's what she said.
The Court: I'll let the answer stand.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Masada, do you remember talking to a District Attorney investigator about what Star Arvizo had said to you about Neverland?
Jamie Masada: I don't know what conversation you're talking about. Refresh my memory, please, if you don't mind. I spoke to them many times.
Mr. Mesereau: Let's go back to December 23rd, 2003. Do you remember talking to a District Attorney investigator named Tim Rooney?
Jamie Masada: If you said so.
Mr. Mesereau: Remember telling that investigator that you had discussed with Star Arvizo what Star experienced at Neverland?
Jamie Masada: If you refresh my memory about it. I discussed it -- refresh my memory, if you don't mind, please.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling the District Attorney investigator that you had discussed Star Arvizo's claims regarding Michael Jackson's alleged abuse at Neverland?
Jamie Masada: I don't recall what I have said. Can you -- what was -- again, re -- say it some more, please.
Mr. Mesereau: Sure. Do you remember telling a District Attorney investigator named Tim Rooney that you had discussed with Star Arvizo what Star experienced with Michael Jackson at Neverland?
Jamie Masada: I don't recall it right now.
Mr. Mesereau: Remember telling a District Attorney investigator that Star told you what he saw Michael Jackson do at Neverland to he and his brother?
Jamie Masada: To do to him and his brother in Neverland?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jamie Masada: No, I don't recall that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling a District Attorney investigator, “Star Arvizo never mentioned wine. He mentioned sleeping pills”?
Jamie Masada: Oh, yeah. What he told me. I didn't discuss it. You got to clarify what you're saying.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jamie Masada: Okay, let's clarify.
Mr. Mesereau: You told him, “Star never mentioned wine. He mentioned sleeping pills”, correct?
Jamie Masada: Let me explain it to you, if you want me --
Mr. Mesereau: Did you say that? Yes or no?
Jamie Masada: I think I did. Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: I have no further questions, Your Honor.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Were you questioning Star Arvizo about what happened at Neverland?
Jamie Masada: No, I did not.
Mr. Zonen: What was the context of that conversation you just relayed to us?
Jamie Masada: They got in my car, and Gavin got in the car and started to --
Mr. Mesereau: I'm going to object as hearsay, Your Honor.
Mr. Zonen: It's in response to the questions elicited by counsel.
The Court: You need to be more specific.
Mr. Zonen: What specifically was the context of the conversation that talked about a pill versus alcohol?
The Court: Are you -- relating it to Star, right?
Mr. Zonen: Yes, with regard to Star. Exactly.
Jamie Masada: Star got in my car and -- Gavin got in the car. Star got in the car. He said something about, “I've got pills and I've got sleeping pills”. And at that point I have this guilt, this Jewish guilt, I didn't want to know about it. I said, “I don't want to know anything about it”. I cut him off. I didn't want to know anything about it. And he was just trying to give me some information that -- I didn't ask him what has happened, what -- any of that. I never ask him anything.
Mr. Zonen: Did he give you anything more than five or ten seconds' worth of information?
Jamie Masada: No, because I -- I cut him off, because I felt that's not my position. I'm not --
Mr. Zonen: Did it appear that he wanted to talk to you about what happened?
Jamie Masada: I think he wanted to talk to me.
Mr. Zonen: Was anybody else present at the time?
Jamie Masada: Gavin was present.
Mr. Zonen: Was he talking to you about what happened?
Jamie Masada: Gavin? No. I remember I felt uncomfortable because Gavin put his head down, he was kind of like almost teary, because something that he said. I looked at Gavin, and I saw Gavin feel uncomfortable, and I look at Star, “Star, I don't want to know anything. Thank you. Let's talk about another thing. Let's talk about baseball. Let's talk about something else”.
Mr. Zonen: Was Gavin's behavior different when you saw him after he came out of Neverland?
Jamie Masada: He was a little withdrawn. He was -- with me, anytime he saw me before, he hug me; he said, “I love you”. Now he was kind of withdrawn. He wouldn't --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive.
Mr. Zonen: I think it is.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: How was his behavior different after Neverland?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; no foundation.
Jamie Masada: I don't know if it was after Neverland. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Beyond the scope.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: You mentioned three checks for $50.
Jamie Masada: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: What were those three checks for?
Jamie Masada: The three checks was for the -- their performance, their endorsement, “You are a comic now”. As soon as you get a check, you are -- your first check, you become a professional. If you become a professional, anything you do, you are attorney -- if you are attorney, you could go say, “I'm an attorney” because you went and passed bar exam. A lot of people walk around in this room, they say, “I'm a comedian” --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: All right. But this was $50 for each of the three Arvizo children?
Jamie Masada: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And was this for their performance?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Was this the graduation performance?
Jamie Masada: It was some kind of graduation performance, before the graduation, yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Did you give checks to just the Arvizo children or to other children?
Jamie Masada: No, all of the children, every children. The children, they went and perform, I endorse them as a performer. As a person, they endorse, “You are a comic now. You have a license to go out there, say 'I'm a comic'”. If somebody go out there, say, “I'm a comic”, and they don't get a check, everybody going in this town, they are waiter and waitress, they are comic or they are actress or actor.
Mr. Zonen: All right. So you did this for all of the children --
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: -- you didn't just single out the Arvizo children?
Jamie Masada: No, I did it for all the children.
Mr. Zonen: I showed you two exhibits, Exhibit No. 624 and 623, these photocopies of the checks; is that correct?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir, you did.
Mr. Zonen: And you established that these are, in fact, photocopies of the two checks that you gave to Mr. Arvizo, David Arvizo?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Are these accurate photocopies? I mean, do they depict the subject matter accurately?
Jamie Masada: It look like, but I'm not sure if it's accurate. It's whatever. You know, my accountant sent them. I believe they are accurate.
Mr. Zonen: Well, go ahead and take a look at both of them. Let's start with the first one, 624.
Jamie Masada: 624, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Now, that's in your handwriting; is that right?
Jamie Masada: No, it's not my handwriting.
Mr. Zonen: Oh, it's not?
Jamie Masada: No.
Mr. Zonen: And have you ever seen that check before?
Jamie Masada: That's my signature.
Mr. Zonen: But it's -- okay. Your signature is on the check?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: But the check was made out by whom?
Jamie Masada: Could be made out by my assistant. It could be made out by my -- my accountant wasn't, because if my accountant was up there, he would do it on the computer. My assistant or somebody, or somebody -- one of my -- the other co-workers that work for me. Any of the employees.
Mr. Zonen: Now, as to that check, do you have a recollection of that check?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I do.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Does that photocopy appear to be an accurate photocopy of the check, as you recall it?
Jamie Masada: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; asked and answered.
Jamie Masada: I believe so.
Mr. Zonen: I would move that exhibit into evidence. I believe it's 623.
Jamie Masada: No, 624.
Mr. Mesereau: May I see it first, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: While counsel is looking at that exhibit -- Is that what you're doing, Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Let me direct your attention to 623, then.
The Court: Wait till he looks. Just give him a chance to look at it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Thank you, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. It's admitted.
Mr. Zonen: As to the other one, then, 623, correct?
Jamie Masada: 623, yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Is that a check that you either signed or had anything to do with?
Jamie Masada: I signed it. And then I think -- if it's computer like that, it's my accountant did that.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. But did you just say you did sign it?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Can I assume if you signed it, you looked at it?
Jamie Masada: I'm sure I did.
Mr. Zonen: Can you tell us if that photocopy is an accurate photocopy of the check?
Jamie Masada: It looks like exactly my check.
Mr. Zonen: I would ask to admit that exhibit as well.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Zonen: Now, the money that you gave to either Janet or Jay for private school, that was actually a tutorial program, was it not?
Jamie Masada: What was it?
Mr. Zonen: A tutorial program. Do you know what that is?
Jamie Masada: No.
Mr. Zonen: Just for private tutoring?
Jamie Masada: It could be. I have no idea. Something to do with a school or something; that they were talking about they want to take him out, you know, put him in somewhere that people make -- not making fun of him. And I want -- you know, they had so much money, but they didn't have enough money. And I said, “How much you need to make it up?” And they said that much, and I did.
Mr. Zonen: Did they ask you for that money?
Jamie Masada: No. I volunteer.
Mr. Zonen: Did this come in the course of a discussion about the fact that they needed some extra education?
Jamie Masada: It could have.
Mr. Zonen: Were you aware that they were out of school for a long period of time when they were at Neverland?
Jamie Masada: That's what I understood.
Mr. Zonen: Was that in the context of this discussion?
Jamie Masada: I don't recall that.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. The money that David Arvizo was given by you for rent, did you pay that money directly to the landlord?
Jamie Masada: No.
Mr. Zonen: You gave it to whom?
Jamie Masada: David. I said, “If you want me write the check for landlord, let me know who is the landlord, and I'll write the check to the landlord”. He said, “No, no, no, write it to me”. And I said, “Okay”.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any assurance that that money actually went to pay the rent?
Jamie Masada: I have no assurance, no.
Mr. Zonen: Do you --
Jamie Masada: No way.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know one way or the other?
Jamie Masada: I have no idea.
Mr. Zonen: Do you believe David Arvizo to be an honest person?
Jamie Masada: You know, I can't -- you asking something that -- you know, you don't know people in that kind of situation. They have -- a poor guy, he's losing his kid and all of that stuff. You don't really -- you really don't know. I mean, you can't read people. I wish I could read people. The only thing I thought he ever done dishonest, was bad, that money I gave for the wallet.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Well, let me ask you this. The money you gave him for rent, was that before or after the whole controversy about the wallet and the $300 or $350 being missing?
Jamie Masada: I don't know. Can I look at the checks?
Mr. Zonen: Would that help you?
Jamie Masada: Yeah, because the date's on top.
Mr. Zonen: Sure. Go ahead.
Jamie Masada: Yeah, that was ten days before the other one happened.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Do you have an opinion as to whether or not that representation that George Lopez stole money from Gavin's wallet was true?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; improper opinion.
Jamie Masada: I -- I don't --
The Court: Just a moment. Sustained.
Jamie Masada: Shall I answer it? Or --
The Court: No. Don't.
Mr. Zonen: Whose idea was it to put the children in a karate school?
Jamie Masada: It was the kids. They were talking about it, and I ask Jay and Janet, “We should do something for the kid, get their energy going”, and that and that. And they said they did not have the money. I said, “Where's” -- “Let's find out where it is. I'll go take them there. I take care of it”. It was me took them to the karate school. It was on Santa Monica Boulevard somewhere, I think, if I'm not mistaken. Maybe I'm wrong. And we took them there and I talked to the instructor, and I talked to them and I said, “How much it is”, and they said so much money, and I said, “Here is the check”. Yeah, that's what I did. I give them a check and I enrolled them, so let them go.
Mr. Zonen: So you actually paid the money directly to the karate school?
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: On the bed, did they ask you to buy a bed for them?
Jamie Masada: No. No, no, no, no, no.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What happened?
Jamie Masada: I went there, I saw the kid. Half of his face was swollen because his kidney, he have one kidney, one spleen. And he -- any day he could buy all of this. I don't know what you guys do in this kind of stress. You might put him back in the hospital again. He might go to the hospital. You got to realize what's going on. This kid have one kidney, he have no spleen, and his cancer on submission. It could come back with the stress --
Mr. Zonen: Tell me about the bed.
Jamie Masada: The bed, I went up there, I saw the face. He was all swollen. He was -- a couple of scars on his face, and he was like all swollen. I said where it came from? He said from his kidney. The doctor said it was from his kidney. And so I said, “Oh, my God, what's going on? Can I do anything?” I said, “Where you sleeping?” Maybe infection or something. They said they sleeping on the floor there. And I said, “Where's your bed?” They didn't have no bed. And, oh, my God, “You kids have no bed?” And I went -- I leave from there or I went -- yeah, I call my assistant. My assistant was at lunch or wherever it was. And I went to the office, “Go right now, take off. Go get the bed for them, deliver the bed”.
Mr. Zonen: Nobody asked for that bed?
Jamie Masada: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did Janet Arvizo ever ask you for money, ever?
Jamie Masada: No. Did not.
Mr. Zonen: You talked about two documentaries. There was the FOX documentary and then the PBS documentary that followed.
Jamie Masada: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Were those documentaries about The Laugh Factory?
Jamie Masada: Was -- was -- one of them was about The Laugh Factory comedy camp. Another one was about Laugh Factory comedy camp, but Arvizo was featuring in it.
Mr. Zonen: They featured the Arvizo family?
Jamie Masada: Yes, I think.
Mr. Zonen: Was this before or after Gavin got sick?
Jamie Masada: They were before.
Mr. Zonen: So they were just three kids in the --
Jamie Masada: Yeah, they were three kids, and they were showing them. I think it's a tape. You guys got to watch it. It's a tape that --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive.
Mr. Zonen: Just tell us what it is.
Jamie Masada: It was about the kids, that they were -- where is their home, where they were living, how did they take a bus to come there, and how they went to -- what they call it? How they came to comedy camp, how the comedy camp, they get -- they talk about their pain and food they don't have, all of that stuff they were talking about. It was a documentary on that.
Mr. Zonen: Which one was that, the PBS or the FOX?
Jamie Masada: The FOX, sir.
Mr. Zonen: You mentioned a man by the name of Patrick Press. Do you mean Patrick Perez?
Jamie Masada: Patrick Perez.
Mr. Zonen: P-e-r-e-z?
Jamie Masada: My spelling is terrible, yes. I'm sorry about spelling.
Mr. Zonen: Did you introduce him, Mr. Perez, to the Arvizo family?
Jamie Masada: I don't know if my office did or something. I know he was there. I don't know what happened.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if any of the Arvizo children got any money for this documentary?
Jamie Masada: I have no idea.
Mr. Zonen: Did you get any money for it?
Jamie Masada: No. I wish I should. I wish I get some money. I didn't get anything.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ask for money?
Jamie Masada: No, I didn't. But I should have ask. I didn't ask for anything.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know the purpose of the documentary?
Jamie Masada: It was something -- they show a lot of people in Hollywood. The people in -- in the community, they know my charity. They know that what I'm doing with the kids, it helps the kids. The whole thing was, purpose of the documentary, to show the success of the comedy -- what does comedy do. And again, it was -- it was all about comedian, thanks to comedians, and comedians made this whole thing happen. It wasn't me. I don't want to take the credit all for myself. Any of that credit goes to the comedians. The comedians, they did that. As a result of the comedians, I wouldn't have my club. So, it's critical to them. I'm emphasizing to most documentaries, comedians should be --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: Did you pay any money toward medical bills that you're aware of for the Arvizo family, or for Gavin specifically?
Jamie Masada: Never.
Mr. Zonen: Did anybody ask you to pay medical bills?
Jamie Masada: Never.
Mr. Zonen: Did Janet ever tell you she had medical bills that she had to pay?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; beyond the scope.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. I have no further questions.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: You mentioned your computer in response to the prosecutor's questions. Do you recall mentioning a computer?
Jamie Masada: I mentioned the check is computer, meaning my accountant have some kind of computer.
Mr. Mesereau: Right. Do you remember being asked by a Santa Barbara sheriff if you could provide accounting records or books about what you had given the Arvizos? Do you remember that?
Jamie Masada: I'm sure they did.
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as exceeding the scope of the redirect examination.
Mr. Mesereau: I think it's within the scope, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you remember your response was, “Those books are gone because they raise computer viruses”?
Jamie Masada: That could have been happened one, two -- or twice. It happened on my office computer, my accountant, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: That is what you told the Santa Barbara sheriffs, right?
Jamie Masada: I could have. I don't know. If that happened at that time, I would have told them, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You said, “Those books are gone because they raise computer viruses”, right?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
Jamie Masada: That check is not confusing, sir.
The Court: Just a moment. The objection is sustained.
Jamie Masada: Oh.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions.
Mr. Zonen: No further questions.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down.
Jamie Masada: Thank you, sir.
The Court: Call your next witness.
Mr. Auchincloss: People call Cynthia Ann Bell.
The Court: Come to the front of the courtroom, please. When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing, face the clerk here. Raise your right hand.
Message: CYNTHIA ANN BELL Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Cynthia Ann Bell: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Thank you.
The Clerk: State and spell your name for the record.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Thank you. My name is Cynthia Ann Bell. C-y-n-t-h-i-a, A-n-n, B-e-l-l.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Good afternoon, Miss Bell.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Good afternoon.
Mr. Auchincloss: How are you employed?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I'm a corporate flight attendant.
Mr. Auchincloss: How long have you been a corporate flight attendant?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Just under seven years.
Mr. Auchincloss: During the year 2003, who did you work for?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Xtra Jet International.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you were a corporate flight attendant at that time?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you ever personally worked on any flights where Xtra Jet provided services to Michael Jackson?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, I have.
Mr. Auchincloss: And is he in court today?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, he is.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Would you identify him for the record?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, I can.
Mr. Auchincloss: He's seated to my right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you. Madam Clerk, could have I have Exhibits No. 31 through 34, if you can find those.
Cynthia Ann Bell: I'm so nervous.
The Court: You can pour yourself some water, if you want.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Thank you.
The Bailiff: Miss Bell, is that almost empty?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Is it what?
The Bailiff: Miss Bell, is that almost empty?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yeah, it's almost empty. Thanks.
Mr. Auchincloss: We're zeroing in on it, Your Honor.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Miss Bell, I'm going to show you an exhibit marked as People's 31. Can you identify that person?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Who is that, please?
Cynthia Ann Bell: This woman was on a flight that I had done with Xrtra Jet International. I believe, yeah, she was definitely on that flight.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Was it a flight in which Mr. Jackson was a passenger?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And I want -- I'm showing you People's Exhibit No. 49. I'd like you to -- we're having trouble locating the picture I'm looking for, but if you could ignore the woman in the middle.
Cynthia Ann Bell: In the center.
Mr. Auchincloss: And just the three children. Have you seen those three children before?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, I have.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were they also on that same flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And do you recall where that flight flew from and where it was headed to?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir. That was from Florida to Santa Barbara.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know the date of that flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: It was either in February or March. Actually, on the trip sheets, that would tell you the exact dates, or I'm certain that --
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you have some notes that would refresh your recollection about the exact date?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you have those with you?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, I do not.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Now, that flight was you said -- what was the month?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I believe it was either February or March.
Mr. Auchincloss: And the flight started in Miami?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And flew to Santa Barbara?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Santa Barbara.
Mr. Auchincloss: And do you recall who was on that flight other than those four individuals you've identified and Mr. Jackson?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes. Mr. Jackson's children were on board. His head governess, Grace. His head of security. The mother of two of the children. And I believe that there were -- there was a medical doctor and two other governesses.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know how long that flight took?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Approximately five hours.
Mr. Auchincloss: And were all the seats full?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you describe your duties on that flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Certainly. As a flight attendant, of course, to greet the passengers and make certain, upon take-off, that their needs are accommodated. During the flight, continuous food and beverage service.
Mr. Auchincloss: And how busy were you, if you recall, on that particular flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Fairly busy.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever have any breaks or downtime where you were able to relax?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Typically, as a corporate flight attendant, you don't really have time. You're typically pretty busy. It's a smaller aircraft, with fewer passengers, and you're typically just -- there's never really any downtime.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And how many people fly on a plane like that, in total?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Well, depending on the load, you could possibly have 12, depending on the configuration of your Gulfstream aircraft or your aircraft, depending on your passenger load or where they're going. There's times I've flown one passenger to London. There's been times where I've flown 16 passengers.
Mr. Auchincloss: My question, on that particular flight from Miami to Santa Barbara, do you know how many people were on the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: It was a full house. It was a full boat.
Mr. Auchincloss: And how many people would that be?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I believe it was in between 12 and 13.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you also provide service to the pilots?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And there are how many pilots?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Two.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you -- would it be safe to say that pilots and yourself are the only service personnel that are on the plane?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Pilots do not serve the passengers.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Flight attendants only.
Mr. Auchincloss: So other than the pilots and yourself, those are the only Xtra Jet employees on the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: On that flight from Miami to Santa Barbara, did you serve Michael Jackson any alcoholic beverages?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: And was there anything peculiar about the means or method that you served him alcoholic beverages?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Tell us what you mean by that.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Well, Mr. Jackson is a very private drinker. I went ahead and initiated serving him in a Diet Coke can.
Mr. Auchincloss: How many times in total have you flown where you were a corporate flight attendant for Mr. Jackson?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Probably about three.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was that with Xtra Jet each time?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, sir, it wasn't. I flew him with Pacific Jet once prior.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were you previously employed with Pacific Jet?
Cynthia Ann Bell: As a contract flight attendant.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was that before you worked for Xtra Jet?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, as a full-time flight attendant, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Why did you serve Mr. Jackson alcohol in a Diet Coke can?
Cynthia Ann Bell: A couple different reasons. I serve other clients that way also. Why?
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Because he's a private -- he was a private drinker.
Mr. Auchincloss: Whose idea was it?
Cynthia Ann Bell: It was mine.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And when did you formulate that idea to put the wine in a Coke can?
Cynthia Ann Bell: On the particular trip with Xtra Jet, I had accidentally for -- forgot and placed a wine glass in front of him.
Mr. Auchincloss: You say you accidentally forgot. Did you have some knowledge about the way that Mr. Jackson liked his alcohol served?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, because I had flown him prior, and he had had alcohol in more of a plastic thermal, like, mug-looking thing. I don't know if that was just a Pacific Jet thing.
Mr. Auchincloss: You served him alcohol previous on the Pacific Jet flight in a plastic mug thing?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And under whose instructions did you serve him alcohol in that method, and by that means, I should say?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I don't remember. I'm sorry.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. But did Mr. Jackson ever tell you to serve him wine in a Coke can?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, he did not.
Mr. Auchincloss: On that flight, do you know who was seated next to Mr. Jackson?
Cynthia Ann Bell: At different times, different parties were seated next to Mr. Jackson. For most of the time or for a lot of the time, there was a young man that was seated next to him.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Was he one of the children that I showed you in the exhibit marked as People's 49?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Which young man are you talking about?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Well, he looks a lot older than that picture, but I believe this, yeah.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Indicating the boy in the blue shirt with the stripe through the middle, the one on the left-hand portion of the photograph?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct. That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: The one where my finger is indicating?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Thank you.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Thank you.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know what his name is? Do you know what that young man's name is?
Cynthia Ann Bell: You'd have to refresh my memory.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. That's fine. If you don't recall, that's fine.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Thank you.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So what type of -- what type of seating arrangement was the area where Mr. Jackson was sitting?
Cynthia Ann Bell: In that particular Gulfstream, it was club seating, with a dinner table, a fixed dinner table.
Mr. Auchincloss: What's club seating?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Club seating is two by two.
Mr. Auchincloss: Two seats facing each other?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Actually, it's a four-seated club configuration. So two passengers could face forward, two passengers could face aft in that particular seating of the aircraft.
Mr. Auchincloss: We don't apparently have an unmarked diagram, so I'm going to ask you just to explain it as specifically as you can. So you have two seats that are side by side. Is that fair to say?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Do you want me to sort of give you a demonstration of what --
Mr. Auchincloss: No. Just two seats side by side, normal airplane seats?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Two seats side by side, yeah, normal -- we're not like the airliners, so it's not -- when you say “normal”, like normal seats, no. I mean, they're big, overstuffed seats, leather, with armrests, you know, separated armrests, but they are side by side.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is there anything in between the two seats?
Cynthia Ann Bell: On that particular aircraft, you could lower the armrests --
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Cynthia Ann Bell: -- to --
Mr. Auchincloss: So you could lower an armrest between the two seats or you could lift it up?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And then you have another two seats. You have a table and then another two seats that are facing the opposite direction?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Right. It would almost be like -- seated like if you were at a restaurant. A seat here, a seat here, a seat there, a seat here.
Mr. Auchincloss: That's fine. And you said that Mr. Jackson was seated most of the time near the young boy that you identified?
Cynthia Ann Bell: For -- yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Along with Prince and Paris, his children. They were always with Mr. Jackson when -- you know, on the other side or in his lap.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. But I'm drawing your attention at this time just to the young boy you've identified.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Okay. Thank you.
Mr. Auchincloss: And the period of time that he was seated next to Mr. Jackson, at any time during this flight, did you ever see Mr. Jackson share his -- well, let me strike that and start with the question, can you characterize how much wine Mr. Jackson consumed on that flight, if you recall?
Cynthia Ann Bell: It was a long flight. Yes, we went through our white wine, and so I would say a bottle or two. Perhaps even -- because I know I opened red wine, but I think I was serving red wine also to -- I was -- actually the medical doctor had rum and Coke and then went to red wine, so I was serving -- (Laughter.)
Cynthia Ann Bell: Well, that makes our flight sound scary.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. You said Mr. Jackson -- was he the only person drinking white wine; do you know?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And do you know approximately -- you said you opened one or two bottles of wine?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know if you got into a second bottle?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I believe that I opened -- that I -- yes, I believe that I had opened two bottles of white.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Cynthia Ann Bell: And one bottle of red, but they weren't completely consumed. I know the red was not completely consumed.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And the second bottle of white wasn't completely consumed?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know if you served Mr. Jackson any white wine -- or, I'm sorry, any red wine?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I don't remember.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know if you served Mr. Jackson any mixed drinks?
Cynthia Ann Bell: On that -- I don't believe so.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. During this flight, how much of the time, if you can recall, did Mr. Jackson have a drink at his seat?
Cynthia Ann Bell: An alcoholic beverage, or --
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes, that's what I mean. I should have been more specific.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Okay. The can was always there. Where he was in club seating had an actual holder for the can. The can was -- was always present. I would refill the can whether or not he was drinking the beverage, consuming it the entire time. The drink was always there is I guess what I'm trying to maintain.
Mr. Auchincloss: During this flight, did you ever see Mr. Jackson share his can of wine with anyone else?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you. I have no further questions.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Thank you.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good afternoon, Ms. Bell.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Good afternoon.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm Tom Mesereau. I speak for Michael Jackson.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you've had one interview with the Santa Barbara Sheriffs, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you also testified before a grand jury in Santa Barbara about this case, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, how many times do you think you've flown with Michael Jackson?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I believe three; no more than six.
Mr. Mesereau: And in none of the flights that you shared with Michael Jackson -- let me rephrase that. At no time on any flight you've been on with Michael Jackson have you ever seen him share wine with any child, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You've never seen Michael Jackson share a Diet Coke can with wine with any child, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You never saw the Arvizo children drinking from a Diet Coke can with alcohol at any time, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You've never saw those children drinking from a Diet Coke can with wine, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. The answer is in. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: At no time did you ever see any of the Arvizo children appear intoxicated, right? Let me rephrase that. I think it's --
Cynthia Ann Bell: I actually served those children, but I I.D'.d the oldest girl.
Mr. Mesereau: You I.D'.d her?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I asked her for her identification.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she give you identification?
Cynthia Ann Bell: She did, actually.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did it show she was 18?
Cynthia Ann Bell: It did not show that she was 18.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Cynthia Ann Bell: And I served her in crystal, knowing -- knowingly served her alcohol.
Mr. Mesereau: You did?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: You never saw Michael Jackson give her alcohol?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Absolutely not.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've never seen any inappropriate behavior between Michael Jackson and any child on a flight, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you have never seen Michael Jackson caress or touch any minor child in an intimate manner, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And, now, you indicated that his children were always around him on the flight the Arvizos were on, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You never observed Michael Jackson at any time when his children weren't around him, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I'm sorry, what?
Mr. Mesereau: On the flight the Arvizos were on, you always saw Mr. Jackson's children around him, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Absolutely.
Mr. Mesereau: And we're talking about three children, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And two nannies, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Three nannies.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall someone throwing food on the plane when the Arvizos were on board?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Relevance; beyond the scope.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You saw one of the Arvizos throwing food on the flight, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know who that was?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, the older of the children. The --
Mr. Mesereau: Is that the female?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No. That was --
Mr. Mesereau: Was it the mother?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, but it could have been. No, it wasn't her.
Mr. Mesereau: You saw one of them was throwing food?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know what that person looked like?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: What did that person look like?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Dark hair, lighter skin. It was more sort of a playful interaction that they had going.
Mr. Mesereau: Was this a male or a female?
Cynthia Ann Bell: A fe- -- a male, actually.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know what the male's name was?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I'm sorry, I don't. I'm drawing a blank on their names.
Mr. Mesereau: You described that male as very rude, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Absolutely. Very rude.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; relevance.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And tell the jury what you mean by “rude”.
Cynthia Ann Bell: The individual was unusually rude, discourteous, very -- I remember him talking about, “I got this watch from Michael, and it's really expensive”, and just -- altogether just not -- just loud, obnoxious, like, “Serve me my food. This isn't warm. This isn't the way it's supposed to be”. And he was just unintelligent. It was embarrassing to have him on board, actually.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you have a picture in front of you? Do you have that exhibit in front of you?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, I do not.
Mr. Mesereau: Where is that? Okay. May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: You may.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, I'm showing the witness Exhibit No. 49.
Mr. Mesereau: Ms. Bell, do you see that picture?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I do.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recognize the person you're identifying as having been rude on the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I do.
Mr. Mesereau: And who is that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: This individual here.
Mr. Mesereau: Which one is that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: You know, his name eludes me. I'm sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: May I have the witness point out the person to the jury, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Cynthia Ann Bell: This individual here.
Mr. Mesereau: Is it your understanding that person's name is Gavin?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, sir, that is his name.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you told members of the grand jury that you perceive Michael Jackson as a touchy- feely kind of person, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said he was touchy-feely, kind of, to you, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: What do you mean by that?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Well, he's very soft-spoken, and typically because of -- he's very polite and very soft-spoken, I would have to kneel and gain eye contact with Mr. Jackson. And, you know, he is very, you know -- you know, would touch my arm when we were communicating. I don't mean touchy-feely like in a weird sort of manner. Just sort of a polite, gaining eye contact, you know, maintaining, you know, communication that way.
Mr. Mesereau: You never found Mr. Jackson to be rude or impolite, did you?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Absolutely not, neither him or his children.
Mr. Mesereau: Could I have that exhibit?
Mr. Mesereau: Now, just for the record, Ms. Bell, on Exhibit 49, that's the picture of four individuals I just showed you, correct? And that's the picture that you pointed the individual out to the jury who you found to be very rude and obnoxious, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you pointed out the fellow to the far left with a blue shirt, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Thank you. On that flight, Mr. Jackson was the only person who drank wine out of a Diet Coke can, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And everyone else that ordered wine had it served in a flute-like glass, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you described Mr. Jackson to the Santa Barbara Grand Jury as one of the most nervous flyers you'd ever seen, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Please tell the jury what you mean by that.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Well, Mr. Jackson is just a very nervous flyer. He doesn't like turbulence. He -- he has been known to have -- not on my flights, but flights land if there's too much turbulence. He just does not enjoy flying. It makes him very nervous.
Mr. Mesereau: And you discussed Mr. Jackson's nervousness on flights with his medical doctor, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes. Actually, his medical doctor discussed it with me before we -- before we launched on our trip to Miami -- or from Miami to Santa Barbara.
Mr. Mesereau: And the subject of that discussion was the fact that he, the doctor, understood that he wanted alcohol to deal with his nervousness, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Assumes facts; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you learn that Michael Jackson was extremely nervous on air flights?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Foundation; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know Michael Jackson was a very nervous flyer?
Mr. Auchincloss: Asked and answered. Objection.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: What did Mr. Jackson like to eat on those flights, if you recall?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Relevance; beyond the scope.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember the young man in Exhibit No. 49, whom you've identified as being rude, the young fellow with the blue shirt, screaming at you that his chicken was not warm?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, that is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the grand jury he's a weird kid, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Michael Jackson always sat by the window, didn't he? Do you recall?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you talk to his doctor on that flight very much?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know where the doctor was seated?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And please tell the jury where Michael Jackson's physician was seated on that flight.
Cynthia Ann Bell: He was seated in the forward aft-facing seat.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me?
Cynthia Ann Bell: The forward aft-facing seat.
Mr. Mesereau: And if you can, describe what you mean.
Cynthia Ann Bell: As you enter the Gulfstream, if you were to make the right, and the first seat that seats aft-facing, which would be facing the back of the aircraft, that was the seat that he was seated in.
Mr. Mesereau: And if you're in that seat, what is your -- let me rephrase that. If you're sitting in that seat, what are you likely to be able to observe on that plane? I mean, what can you see as you sit in that seat, assuming you're looking forward? What's in front of you?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That would be the -- the Arvizos' mom was seated in the forward-facing seat, facing him.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Cynthia Ann Bell: He would -- he would be able to see in the cabin, but not -- I mean, I probably have the best seat in the house because I'm standing in the galley.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were in a position where you could see everything going on on that flight, couldn't you?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And --
Cynthia Ann Bell: Except for the pilots, because we close the pilots off.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you would describe that interior of the plane as very close and intimate, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Very much so.
Mr. Mesereau: You were able to see everything that went on in that plane, couldn't you, other than what the pilots were doing?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall if you ever saw Mr. Jackson sleeping on the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: No, sir, he was not sleeping on the flight.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you see him eat his meal on the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you serve his children on the flight?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you serve them?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; relevance.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know someone named Lauren Wallace?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I do.
Mr. Mesereau: And who is Lauren Wallace?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Lauren Wallace is a corporate flight attendant.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told her about Mr. Jackson's desire to have his alcohol in a Diet Coke can, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you served Michael Jackson vodka drinks, they were always in a Diet Coke can, correct?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: What you would typically do is go into the lavatory, pour out the Coke, and put some either wine or vodka in the Diet Coke can, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And what you typically did was go up to Mr. Jackson and say, “Here's your Diet Coke, Mr. Jackson”, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You both understood what was in there, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And your understanding was Mr. Jackson didn't want children to see him drinking alcohol, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You were on some flights where there was considerable turbulence, right?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And would it be accurate to say that when there was a lot of turbulence, Mr. Jackson would drink a little more than normal?
Cynthia Ann Bell: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your impression he did that because he was nervous?
Cynthia Ann Bell: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: I think we're through, Your Honor.
The Court: We are. All right. We'll start at 8:30 tomorrow morning.
Cynthia Ann Bell: Do I get to go home?
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:30 p.m.
