Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Monday, March 28, 2005 8:30 a.m.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: Good morning.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor.
The Court: I'll say that again. Good morning.
Mr. Sanger: Good morning.
The Court: Let's see, the moving party here is the People.
Mr. Sneddon: Good morning, Your Honor. What I would like to do in my presentation this morning is to proceed by setting a little bit about the legal framework for which the discussion on the 1108 motion in particular, and begin with the 1108 motion. And I think the simplest way to begin with this discussion is the fact that in 1995, the legislature, in enacting Penal Code Section 1108, significantly changed the law in California and the practice of criminal law in California. It's clear from the legislative intent of Section 1108 that it was a recognition that crimes such as child molestation are secretive, they're serious, children are particularly and uniquely vulnerable, and that oftentimes, and in most cases in fact, it's the credibility of the victim that is at issue. The Supreme Court in Falsetta that upheld Section 1108 against the constitutional attacks made it very clear that these types of crimes are committed in seclusion, without third-party witnesses, and without substantial corroborating evidence. And it's precisely for that reason that the legislature enacted Penal Code Section 1108. Secondly, there was a legislative finding that has been repeated over and over and over again by the courts of this state in recognizing the validity of that particular -- this particular legislative finding; that is, that the willingness to commit sexual offenses is not common to most individuals, and therefore propensity evidence is uniquely probative and necessary in determining the credibility of witnesses. There's a further legislative intent reflected in 1108 that has again been repeatedly confirmed by the courts of this state, and that is that Evidence Code Section 1108 evidence should be liberally admitted. Indeed, cases now recognize that it's established principle that it is presumptive to be admissible in criminal cases. We feel for this reason that the evidence, and the pro-offer of proof that we've indicated to the Court we intend to present would be in this case, is consistent with the legislative intent and consistent with the judicial interpretation of Section 1108 and be uniquely admissible as to corroborating the victims in this particular case. Now, in that connection, Your Honor, the Court is in a much better position now than it would have been to hear this motion before trial started because the Court's now had an opportunity to see the testimony and the evidence of Gavin Arvizo, that of the sister and of the brother. But more importantly, the Court has had an opportunity to hear Mr. Mesereau's opening statement and Mr. Mesereau's cross-examination of the family members in this particular case, and including Gavin Arvizo. There's no question that they have presented squarely the fact that the issue -- that the family's credibility, and Gavin Arvizo's credibility, and in fact indeed the mother's credibility, is central to the defense case, and that is precisely -- precisely the reason that 1108 was enacted. Pursuant to their theory, I don't think it's been any secret, it's been a scorched-earth process, there's a take-no-prisoners approach to these children and to this mother who is going to testify in the next couple of weeks. And while this approach is hardly unique, it's hardly unexpected and it's hardly novel, the point is that these are precisely the kind of tactics that the legislature recognized where propensity evidence should be admitted in order to balance the scales in situations where an accused has exhibited propensity to commit similar types of crimes. Now, I don't intend to go through the offers of proof in detail, because the Court already has the information before it. But I would like to summarize what it is for the Court that we're seeking to admit. First, we're asking the Court's permission to allow us to have one prior child victim testify to three separate incidents of molestation by the defendant. The molestations are very similar in nature. They involved the genitalia of the kid -- of the child, and they involve instances where -- two instances outside the clothing of the child on a prolonged basis, and a third incident where the child -- where the hand was thrust up inside the pants of the child, onto the skin of the child. We're seeking to admit no less than five third-party witnesses of inappropriate molestations and touchings by the defendant as to four separate children. Again, the conduct is similar in nature. Some of it is kissing, hugging. And other parts of it involve, again, insertion of the defendant's hand into the genitalia of the particular children involved. I think it's noteworthy to bring to the Court's attention, as I will also cover in certain parts of my other presentation to the Court, all of these children are basically between the ages of 10 and 13 at the time that the offenses occurred or were observed by third parties. Thirdly, there is -- there are some witnesses who have direct observation by third-party witnesses that involve multiple incidents involving the same child. So we not only have witnesses that are multiple, but we have multiple incidents involving observations of the third party. We have an additional incident -- an additional witness who will testify to incidents involving the defendant with children, four other children, observing the defendant in bed with four other children, and on three of those occasions observing the child and the defendant in bed, and that the child and the defendant's underpants were lying next to the bed. We have a sixth incident that involves the same child that has already been observed by at least two other witnesses that are on our list to be called as being -- that observed acts of molestation by the defendant. And this witness observed the defendant licking the head of a child in the identical manner to that described by Star Arvizo, as will be described by Janet Arvizo. We think this is particularly probative in light of the defendant's contention filed by papers in this court that this is an example of Janet Arvizo's delusional state that she saw this, when, in fact, we have another witness who saw this very conduct occur by the defendant as to another child about the same age as Gavin Arvizo. Lastly, we have two witnesses that will testify to the fact that the defendant encouraged children to call him “daddy”, children other than the children in this case, and that he talked about, with the mother of one of the children, how it was important that the mother think of him and the children and them as being all one big family, and they were like family together. Again, conduct and statements which have been, to this point in the trial, alleged to have been uniquely responsible to the Arvizo family, when, in fact, there's evidence indicating that the defendant has used this approach with children and families prior to the commencement of the trial of this particular case and in other instances involving families that are not -- have not have been a party so far. With regard to the 1108, of course, the central issue is the balancing of the probative value versus the substantial undue prejudice to the defendant. I think that it is -- it is important to keep in mind what the courts have said about undue prejudice and what the courts have said about a substantial prejudice, because these are concepts that are unique in the legal profession and they are unique to cases such as this. And I think the first starting point for us in this regard, Your Honor, is the language that is found in cases that recognize that the unique stigma of a child sexual abuse case, the danger is one that all propensity evidence -- it is the same in all propensity evidence in such trials. It is for this reason that the evidence was previously excluded but is precisely the reason now that it's admitted into evidence. So simply the fact that it is a child molest prior charge or uncharged offense in and of itself doesn't answer the question as to whether it's prejudicial. In fact, the language that we've quoted to the Court in our moving papers of the Branch court, the Branch case made it very clear that where the conduct of the defendant in the case before the Court and the conduct of the defendant in the charged or uncharged acts is very similar in nature, that that is found not to be what the courts would consider inflammatory or prejudicial under the concept of 1108. And that is precisely the situation that we have here. The conduct is very similar, if not identical, in many of the instances, and therefore in the balancing of the 352 criteria, under the doctrines of those cases that have analyzed the balancing process, that has not been found one that would cause the Court concern in allowing this evidence to come before a court. I think it's also important, Your Honor, to recall the language in the Soto case that we cited to the Court with regard to prejudice. And if the Court would allow me, I'd like to read just a little bit from that decision at page 989: “Prejudice, as contemplated by Section 352, is not so sweeping as to include any evidence the opponent finds inconvenient. Evidence is not prejudicial, as that term is used in Section 352 context, merely because it undermines the opponent's position or shores up that of the proponent. The ability to do so is what makes evidence relevant. The code speaks in terms of undue prejudice. The prejudice referred to in Evidence Code 352 applies to evidence which uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against a defendant as an individual which has very little effect on the issues. In applying 352, prejudice is not synonymous with damaging”. I think that's important in this case, particularly in light of what I've just said about how the Branch case and the Falsetta case and some of the others have applied the principle that when the case is similar in nature and the conduct is similar in nature, that that doesn't rise to be inflammatory under the balancing process. The second balancing issue for the Court as outlined in the cases is remoteness. This particular case -- in this particular case, at the time that the charges were actually filed two years ago, the incidents involved would have been somewhere between 10 to 12 years prior to this case. We have cited to the Court in our moving papers a number of cases involving remoteness. And of those cases, there are 11 of them that I believe -- at least 11 that have been indicated, been cited to the Court. Some, like Branch, are 30 years old. Seven of the cases involve uncharged prior offenses. Four of the cases involve charged prior offenses where there was either a trial or an admission -- a trial finding of guilt or an admission of guilt. In those cases, we have cases like Frazier, which is 15 and 16 years old. Soto case, uncharged, 20 years old. Davis case, 13 years, uncharged. Branch, 30 years, uncharged. Fitch, the case was seven years, uncharged. Waples, W-a-p-l-e-s, 20 years, uncharged. And some of the charged ones, again, like Pierce, they were 23 years old. And Falsetta, they were 14 and 12 years old. And in Britt, the priors were 13 and 22 years old. And in a murder case, where they admitted evidence under 1101 where remoteness was at issue in a murder case, the uncharged crime was 17 years old. So I think the Court can see that with regard to the remoteness issue, the balance on the scale is far in favor of admissibility of the charges of the uncharged cases and priors that we seek to admit. The cases make it very clear that this is not something that would cause a Court concern in allowing the admissibility of prior uncharged acts. Now, I think where the problem arises in this area, Your Honor, is with the Harris case. And I think the Court is familiar with the Harris case. It's been cited by both sides. And it is the only published case that we have found that actually deals with a situation where a lower court was reversed on an abuse of discretion where they allowed 1108 evidence in. There are several other cases that reversed, but most of those were for instructional error before the Court came down with guidance as to what instructions to be given to the jury with regard to these particular issues. But Harris is the only case that I've been able to find and it's the only case that's been cited by either side where a Judge was reversed on appeal. And I think Harris illustrates the difference here between remoteness and the connection between remoteness and the confusion, which is the third factor that the Court has considered with the jury. The problem with the Harris case was, it involved a tremendous amount of violence. As you may recall from that case, Your Honor, the victim was attacked. She was mutilated in the genitalia area. She was stabbed multiple times. The knife was left in her body at the time. There was evidence at the time that the defendant, Harris, was found, that he had blood on his private parts and in a size that, in essence, the woman had been raped as well as mutilated. And the charging offense was a 288 without any violence in it at all. And the Court found on appeal that that case simply was one of those cases where the Court should have exercised its discretion and not allowed it in because of the fact that the conduct was so dissimilar and the conduct was inflammatory because of the nature of the violence involved. And the other factor that the Court pointed out was how, in attempting to try to balance the inflammatory nature, the Court basically redacted the way the crime was committed in such a fashion that it was absolutely impossible for the jury to understand what really happened. And of course that's not -- that's not a problem that this Court is faced with. We're not faced with a Harris, because the crimes are not different. We're not faced with a Harris, because we're not dealing with violence. We're not faced with Harris, because there's no reason for this Court to redact anything, because of the very, very, very similar nature of the conduct involved with the defendant and Gavin Arvizo and the ones that we're attempting to put in as uncharged prior acts. So I say to the Court that the confusion to the jury in this case is simply not present. And for whatever -- whatever hay that the defense wants to make of it in their argument to the Court, the fact of the matter is, it is clearly distinguishable from the instant case. Now, the last factor we want to talk about is undue consumption of time. And we've indicated to the Court in our moving papers what our estimate of the direct examination of the witnesses would be; that basically almost all of the cases, the direct examination would be less than an hour, and in some cases significantly less than that. That's not accounting for the defense's right for cross-examination. But I will indicate to the Court to the Court, as pointed out in the Frazier case, and this is a 2001 case, 89 Cal.App.4th, at page 42, in that particular case, 182 pages of the transcript, in other words, 27 percent of the trial, in other words, the Court said in the decision, one quarter of the trial was devoted to the priors, that that was not, in their opinion, undue consumption of time. Now, given the length of time of this trial, and given what we're seeking to admit, and the tightness of the issues that we're talking about, clearly our case is not even going to come close to consuming 25 percent of the trial time in this case. And the second one that the Court -- if the Court wants to review another case that also examined the same issue of undue consumption of time is the Mullens case, M-u-l-l-e-n-s. And that's a 2004 case. It's a very recent case, 119 Cal.App.4th, 648 at 661, where the defense in that particular case made the same or similar remarks as the defense in this case; that we'll end up with a series of mini-trials over the uncharged acts. Well, that of course, is exactly what happened in the 11 cases that we cited to you where multiple uncharged or charged offenses were admitted into evidence. And the Court, in those cases, as well as this recent case, indicated that's really not an appropriate reason in and of itself to reject 1108 evidence in light of the very, very strong legislative intent that this kind of evidence be admitted in trials of this very nature. So I indicate to the Court that all of the balancing factors that have been traditionally looked to by courts for the issue of 1108 admissibility not only tend to favor the prosecution in this case, but I think on balance favor, in a very strong way, that this Court should admit the evidence that we seek to bring before the jury in this particular case. Let me just say one last thing in that connection, Your Honor, and that is one of the things that the Court has looked at in factors of admissibility in this area in terms of the probative value. And I've talked a lot about the prejudicial effect. But the probative value, that there are three principles I think that can be distilled from the cases in this area. From the Ewoldt case, E-w-o-l-d-t, which is one of the leading cases on 1101 evidence, but clearly the language is probative on this particular issue, and that is the probative value of uncharged offenses increases when the source is of independent evidence. And by the way, that very language has been cited in some of the 1108 cases, and so that's the reason I went back to the seminal case on it. But the fact of the matter is, that's exactly what we have here is uncharged offenses which are of an independent source and independent witnesses. In the Yavanov, Y-a-v-a-n-o-v, case, which is cited in our brief, and the language is found at page 405, another factor on the probative value is the frequency of the uncharged acts bolsters the relevance. And again, we have -- as I've indicated to the Court, the frequency and the number of individuals involved who observed things as well as the different number of victims that were observed. And lastly, the Frazier case at 89 Cal.App.4th, page 30 at page 41, indicated insofar as 1108 evidence goes that the pattern as to the same type of children is significant in the balancing process. And we submit to the Court that in this case, of course, the pattern in the similarities; that the victims are similar in age, the manner in which the victims were cultivated is similar, and the crimes are similar. And under these doctrines, I think, are all the more reason why this evidence should be admissible. At this point, Your Honor, I'd like to just shift gears, if I might, to deal a little bit with the 1101 issue before the Court. And again, I'll try not to go over things I've already covered and that have been briefed, but I want to highlight some of the things that are more relevant to the Court's decision here this morning. I think it's important to start again with the cases that are responsible for developing the guidelines under Section 1101 of the Evidence Code. And, you know, those two cases are -- came down at the same basic time, and that was Ewoldt and Balcom, B-a-l-c-o-m. Balcom's at 7 Cal.4th, and the language I'm citing is around 424. But they make it very clear -- that decision made it very clear that when Courts are faced with evidence admissibility under 1101, that they are usually and traditionally divided into three camps. There's the identity, the modus operandi and intent. And there are different standards for the Court with regard to reviewing the admissibility. And we have indicated to the Court that we are seeking to admit the evidence that we put in our offer of proof under at least three, if not four, separate exceptions that are noted in 1101(b) of the Evidence Code. And the first, of course, is the intent. And by intent, we're talking about the lewd and lascivious act and the sexual gratification for which the acts were done in this case. And particularly I think if you look at the language in the Branch case at 91 Cal.App.4 at 274, you'll see in an analysis of that case how the intent or the sexual gratification is a key issue in cases of 288(a), which is the kind of offense that we have before the Court here. Again, we indicated to the Court a second reason for the admissibility is the motive. And the motive has been recognized by the Thompson case, which we also cited to the Court, is the incentive to criminal behavior. And here it's a propensity, proclivity for the defendant to be involved in relationships with children between the ages of 10 and 13. And lastly -- well, in addition to opportunity, we indicated the modus operandi, and I want to point out just a couple of things on modus operandi. Modus operandi on the scale of the issues on both the Ewoldt and Balcom cases is in the middle. And when it's intent, there needs to be less similarities. When it's identity, there needs to be almost like a hand print. And for modus operandi, it's sort of in the middle. But both Balcom and Ewoldt make it very clear that when you're dealing with modus operandi, it does not have to be distinctive necessarily, nor does it have to be unusual. Now, I would submit to the Court, on the other hand, in this particular case we have both a distinctive one and an usual one, and that is that we have a series of acts involved on male children between the ages of 10 and 13. And we have pointed out to the Court in our points and authorities a number of cases that have found, in evaluating the admissibility of 1101 evidence, critical similarities that are far less unique than the ones I've suggested to the Court here. I won't go through the whole litany, but I'll direct the Court to page 46 of our brief between lines 20 and 28, and we indicated to the Court there are no less than, looks like, eight cases in which the courts of the state have admitted evidence under 1101 where the similarity involved things just like I have suggested to the Court. Victims: Close relatives, white, young, females, all white males between the ages of 18 and 25. I mean, how close can you get? Two 12-year-old children. So I think the Court is on very firm ground in evaluating the admissibility of evidence that we seek under 1101(b) to rely on those cases and rely on the distinctive nature of the uncharged offenses in this particular case. Of course in the 1101 field, the balancing test, the four factors that were outlined in 1108 also apply to 1101(b), and I -- without reiterating them -- and I won't reiterate the factors that I've gone through, but I see nothing in the evidence that we seek under 1101(b) that my remarks to the Court would be any different than the remarks I made under 1108. And, in fact, probably, in many cases, would follow even stronger in the area of admissibility than they would have been in the 1108 area. I would like to point out to the Court, however, the case of Dancer, D-a-n-c-e-r, which is a case that we cited in our brief, and in particular we cited -- that's at 45 Cal.App.4th 1677. And on page 486 -- 485 of our brief, we indicated in the Dancer case they found something like 12 or 13 items of similarity in that case. And we contrasted that and compared that to our particular case where we identified for the Court at least 17 similarities, much of the same -- paralleled the same kind of information that was available in Dancer. And it's for those reasons, Your Honor, we believe that that case is very pertinent to the admissibility of the evidence presented here. I would like to reiterate that I think there's a couple of things that need to be said here. The defense has made a big thing about the fact that the defendant -- in fact, Mr. Mesereau stood up in his opening statement and read off a list of things that the defendant, Michael Jackson, has bought the mother of the victim in this case. And I think it's illustrative of the fact that this is not unique to the mother in this particular case, but that -- to other mothers involved with other children, that we intend to put evidence on that this was a rather standard procedure for the defendant to buy gifts and to do things for the mothers in those cases to keep them preoccupied so the defendant would have free rein with the child involved. And again, the other part of the 1108 is to establish that the nature of the relationship with these children, that there was nothing unique about the relationship that was developed between Gavin Arvizo and the defendant in this case, that it was precisely -- precisely like the kind of relationship that he developed and had with a number of special friends over a period of a number of years that were witnessed by the witnesses that we've indicated to the Court, that have observed that kind of relationship between the defendant and children between the ages of 10 and 13. And by “that kind of relationship”, I want to make it clear to the Court what I'm talking about. It's a relationship different from that, from kids who are visiting that ranch for purposes of riding the rides, going to the movies, enjoying the facilities, and then leaving, on a day basis. These are relationships that were developed on an ongoing basis where the children came, they visited, oftentimes they visited without their parents. They visited other locations where the defendant was living at other times, and developed the kind of relationship that we have heard testimony about with Gavin Arvizo. And I think, again, that this is the kind of evidence precisely that this jury ought to hear, that this is not the first time that the defendant has approached a child in this manner and in this respect and think that it's a unique experience for Gavin Arvizo. That, in fact, this is the way that the defendant operates. And that's precisely why I believe that the modus operandi exception is uniquely applicable to this particular case. I'm assuming, Your Honor, that just about, I think, wraps up what I wanted to draw the Court's attention to. Of course, I don't want to repeat the things we put in our brief. And I'll reserve, of course, my remarks. I think the Court would like to -- I'm assuming the Court would like to handle the admissibility of the evidence of the civil settlements after the Court finishes this evidence, and I'm not addressing that now.
The Court: That's fine.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm open to any questions that the Court has at this point, if you have any.
The Court: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you very much, Your Honor, for listening to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning, Your Honor. Your Honor, my approach is going to be quite different from that of the prosecutor. And my approach is based upon comments made by this Court at a prior hearing on this issue. When the issue initially surfaced in open court, this Court very courageously and honorably described a prior incident where Your Honor was the trial judge in a case brought by prosecutors against a defendant alleging child molestation. The defendant pled not guilty. The Court used all of the cases, I'm sure, that Mr. Sneddon has cited to justify the admission of 1108 evidence. The Court heard that 1108 evidence, then the Court heard the underlying case, and as I interpreted what the Court said, Your Honor, you found the underlying case so lacking in credibility and substance and so problematic that you declared a mistrial, even though you had, under the technical law cited by Mr. Sneddon repeatedly this morning, allowed in 1108 evidence.
The Court: Counsel, that -- actually, I granted a new trial after conviction, but the same point.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: Based on that point.
Mr. Mesereau: I have no doubt that every case and authority cited by Mr. Sneddon could have been used to justify the admission of that evidence. But the Court did not just rely on those cases. The Court did not just rely on those authorities. The Court had a concern for justice, and fairness, for which we commend the Court. And the Court was not going to allow the 1108 statute to supersede fairness, justice, the presumption of innocence and the burden of proof. And I think the Court crystallized the issue before it this morning when you related that event. What I believe the Court was concerned with, and I'm putting it in slightly different terms, is that this Court, despite that statute, did not want to see either the burden of proof or the presumption of innocence reduced or eliminated by the introduction of that evidence. And what I believe the Court said, in different words, was the following: The weaker the case, the more problematic the 1108 evidence. The stronger the underlying case, the less a possibility of prejudice and injustice by admitting it. And indeed, no matter what the prosecutor may cite in his arguments to the Court, the statute does allow the Court to exercise discretion under Evidence Code 352, and that discretion is significant. That gets us to the question, what has the Court seen in this courtroom? Is the case strong on credibility and substance or is it weak on credibility and substance? If it's really powerful, the Court probably is less worried. If there are credibility problems with their case and their witnesses, the Court has great concern to worry because the potential for lessening the burden of proof on the prosecution in this case would be great. Now, the Court is dealing with some unique situations. First of all, you have a celebrity. A celebrity who has been subjected to all kinds of innuendo, scandalous reporting and rumor, and a celebrity who has attracted all kinds of claims for money, who has developed a lifestyle at Neverland which he has advertised to the world, which he believes and contends, and many believe, is a benefit to society. The prosecution has come in to try and turn all this on its head and suggest that Neverland is some magnet for molestation and criminal behavior. Well, that's going to be an issue for the jury. But certainly at this point the Court knows, based on the evidence alone, that Mr. Jackson has developed Neverland as a Disney-like type of world that he uses to help children from the inner city, children around the world, et cetera. There's a bigger problem than the uniqueness of the case, and none of the cases cited by Mr. Sneddon deal with celebrities or anyone remotely close to Mr. Jackson in terms of notoriety and attraction for greed and misuse of the legal process. The Court has seen three witnesses who the Court -- who the prosecution suggests are victims. And without going into a lot of the details, which I don't think the Court wants me to give a closing argument at this point, but there is no question all three of those witnesses have been riddled with problems in their testimony. All have agreed they lied repeatedly. All were caught lying on the witness stand. All were caught in notorious and repeated inconsistencies and all contradicted themselves repeatedly. Every witness was a problem. Now, if the Court agrees there are significant credibility problems with Gavin Arvizo, Star Arvizo, and Davellin Arvizo -- and I believe the Court does, because I don't see how anyone watching the cross-examination could disagree with that. If the Court thinks there are issues to worry about, I would ask the Court to add to that concern the following: Gavin alleges two acts of alleged molestation. There is no eyewitness to either one. And there is no DNA to support it. In fact, there's no forensic evidence at all to support it. Star, along with his credibility problems, alleges -- it changes, the number. But he appears to allege two acts of molestation, separate from those of Gavin that he watched. There is no eyewitness. There is no DNA. There is no forensics to support it. So as the Court looks at the evidence so far, what do you really have? You have what, in effect, is a very problematic case, and I submit the prosecutors know that. It's extremely problematic. It's filled with credibility issues. And those credibility issues I submit to the Court at this point are compounded by the evidence they've tried to introduce so far about conspiracy. Now, I realize we're talking this morning about the molestation claims, but certainly the Court, and any jury, when gauging credibility, if the Court thought the conspiracy claims were problematic, filled with credibility issues, that would most certainly and rationally spill over into other claims and vice versa. Now, the Court at this point has heard the prosecutors talk about the mother. You've seen the rebuttal tape. You've seen the demeanor of the witnesses. You've seen the three witnesses get up and say, “We all were lying repeatedly”. The Court at this point has its own conclusions about what that rebuttal tape suggests and whether these answers were spontaneous or whether they were scripted and rehearsed. And I don't think anyone looking at that tape is even going to imagine that these are all rehearsed answers. The Court knows that the family were sending cards to Mr. Jackson way before they made their glowing statements on the rebuttal tape calling him “daddy” and how he had helped Gavin with his cancer, et cetera. The Court has seen witnesses come in who have tried to downplay what Mr. Jackson did for them and get caught in notorious lies repeatedly. The Court has seen notorious differences between what's said on the witness stand, what's said in police interviews, et cetera. Now, the Court hasn't seen the mother yet. And we wish the Court would see the mother before it makes its decision, because everything I'm arguing to the Court is going to be magnified a million times when she testifies. What the Court has seen the prosecution do is the following: They have desperately tried to prove to this jury why their witnesses would tell repeated lies, why they would contradict themselves, why they were caught in numerous inconsistencies. They are reduced, as prosecutors, not to just proving a case beyond a reasonable doubt, but trying to prove to a jury why their witnesses lied. And they've gotten so desperate they're now trying to differentiate the mother from the ex-husband, which is simply not going to work, because one of their witnesses, Louise Palanker, when she wrote her first check for $10,000, was asked by the husband to write it to Janet Arvizo. It was received by Janet, endorsed by Janet into her mother's account. And of course, as the Court knows, the next check which Ms. Palanker wrote, because she didn't want to pay a gift tax, wanted it to go to another individual, was written to David. It was then also endorsed by him and deposited into Janet mother's account. The prosecution is reduced now to trying to prove that Janet Arvizo did not always directly ask for money, and yet the overwhelming proof is going to be that she didn't directly ask for it, she indirectly did, and received it. And that's going to be absolutely proven beyond any doubt when the case is finally to the jury. Because we have witnesses coming in our case that nobody has seen yet. I submit to this Court that the introduction of 1108 evidence is very problematic, given the weak nature and the contradictory nature of their case. I submit that the introduction of 1108 evidence could easily reduce the burden of proof the prosecutors have, could easily jeopardize the presumption of innocence in this case and could render an unfair trial. Again, I understand what the cases say and what they cite, but this Court has very honorably suggested its concern for fairness, as it was in another case, and that's why the Court waited to see what some of their witnesses looked like. I wish we would defer it, because every time they put a witness on, it gets worse. But nevertheless, here's where we are. Now, what is 1108 evidence essentially? Essentially it's character evidence. And when the debate was going on in legislature about whether or not to create an exception, tremendous concerns were raised about allowing the prosecution to simply introduce evidence of -- what appears to be evidence of bad character. Now, they can phrase it in any terminology they want, they can say it's evidence of modus operandi, intent, blah blah. But the reality is, they're trying to bring in character evidence to bolster a separate charge. And any time you do that, the Court has to be concerned with the possibility of prejudice. Now, I don't need to recite the cases to the Court on prejudice. I know the Court's familiar with them. But every time they define prejudice, they define it in terms of emotion. Will it have an emotional effect on the jury that is improper? Will it have an emotional effect on the jury that results in unfair prejudice to the defendant? And if, in fact, that emotional effect is there, will it also spill over into the other factors like confusion of issues, et cetera? The evidence they're trying to introduce is evidence of a highly inflammatory and emotional nature. There's no question about that. But I think the Court also has to look at the substantive part of the evidence that they want to introduce, because from what we can see in the cases that we've looked at, every time they've introduced 1108 evidence in a case like this, they have had a separate alleged victim describe something similar. Nowhere can we find they are just willy-nilly bringing in third-party witnesses to say they saw something without bringing the alleged victim in. Yet that is exactly what 99 percent of the evidence they plan to bring in is. And I submit the potential for prejudice there is overwhelming. They probably couldn't win a civil case if they were pursuing a civil case based on nothing but third parties. Yet they want to do it in a criminal case without any of these alleged victims coming in, with the exception of one, who is problematic, and I will explain that to the Court. So I submit the very substance of what they're trying to do is wrong, and it's potentially very prejudicial to Mr. Jackson particularly given the weak nature of the case. Now, let's look at what they're trying to do. They have an alleged prior victim named Brett Barnes who tells us he never was touched improperly. They want to bring in four witnesses to talk about Brett Barnes. They don't want to bring him in. Because the moment they bring him in, they're done. So they want to bring in allegedly four honest witnesses - I guess they're vouching for their credibility - to testify that Mr. Barnes was improperly touched. Who are their main witnesses? Their main witnesses sued Mr. Jackson in the mid '90s, and for the first time Mr. Jackson decided, “I'm tired of settling these stupid cases, I'm actually going to defend this one”. It resulted in the longest civil trial in the history of this courthouse. And the Court, I'm sure, knows a lot more about that case than I do. At numerous times during that six-month trial, the trial Judge made findings that the plaintiffs were lying, not being candid, changing their stories, even leaving the bench on a couple of occasions. And when the dust settled, the jury returned a verdict for Mr. Jackson, awarded Mr. Jackson damages, because the plaintiffs had stole from him. The Judge then awarded not only costs, but legal fees, and in the end Mr. Jackson obtained a judgment for over a million dollars against these lying plaintiffs. They want the Court to allow these lying plaintiffs to come in now again and try and testify to improper acts, when there is no alleged victim they intend to call. That's just plain wrong. And if they suggest it wouldn't be time-consuming to litigate that issue, all the Court has to do is look at the six-month trial and its length to know that's not true, because they sold stories to tabloids, they were caught lying, and they had a big judgment against them. Then we have Jordie Chandler, who everyone tells us, and apparently was announced on television this morning, is not going to testify. So who do they want to bring in to testify to that? First of all, Your Honor, I would note that in their motion, they mention someone named Bob Jones. And in very graphic -- in a very graphic manner they told the Court that Mr. Jones had worked for Mr. Jackson for years, had traveled internationally with him, and would testify to all sorts of improprieties with children. We just were produced a police report by the prosecution where Mr. Jones flat out denies virtually everything they said in their motion. He has told the Santa Barbara Sheriffs, with counsel, that he never saw anything inappropriate happen when Mr. Jackson was in the company of any of these children. They haven't told that to the Court in any of their papers, to my knowledge, but they just gave us that report. Now, what happens if you allow third-party testimony about Mr. Chandler without allowing Mr. -- forcing them, or ordering them, or requiring them to have Mr. Chandler, the alleged victim, testify? You then have people come in to say what they saw without any victim to confirm it. And what happened back in those days? In summary, this is what happened: Chandler's parents had been divorced in 1986. The father had given up custody of the child. When these alleged events happened, the father jumped on the bandwagon and wanted to become a multimillionaire, and he fueled litigation. And all of a sudden, you had the parents suing Mr. Jackson, you had -- the mother's new husband then decided to sue Mr. Jackson for allegedly interfering with his business. He had an auto company, and he claimed that the publicity had interfered with his business. He wanted millions. After the settlement, the father then filed a new lawsuit against Mr. Jackson wanting 30 million more dollars. That was litigated and he lost. You have all sorts of collateral litigation, and eventually Mr. Chandler filed papers in Superior Court seeking legal emancipation from his parents. Where is the justice in this case of allowing parents to come in who collected lots of money because Mr. Jackson wanted to get this case behind him and pursue his music career? And indeed, all kinds of advisors were telling him to do that. You have parents playing each other off with the child and pursuing collateral litigation, all of that will obviously have to be explored, because the potential for financial interest, financial bias in a situation like that, is enormous, the motives for financial gain were enormous, and indeed, there was never any criminal prosecution despite Mr. Sneddon's noble efforts to try and do one. So there's no alleged victim with Brett Barnes. There's no alleged victim with Jordie Chandler. Then we come to Macaulay Culkin, who has repeatedly made statements that he's a friend of Mr. Jackson and has never been molested. But they want to bring in evidence that he was molested. And they want to bring in witnesses who also were part of the gang that sued Mr. Jackson, and lost, with findings that they had lied and with enormous damages awarded against them. Now, the fourth alleged victim is Jason Francia. Jason Francia and his mother were interviewed by the sheriffs and a deposition of the mother was taken. Money was paid to settle that case, again because Mr. Jackson didn't want the press, didn't want his family going through it, and wanted to pursue his music career. There never was a criminal prosecution, even though the alleged victim was interviewed by the Los Angeles District Attorney and the Santa Barbara District Attorney together. And after their interview with Jason Francia - which was so wishy-washy about what happened, they never decided to pursue a criminal case, because there wasn't one. We have that taped interview - the mother, in a civil deposition in the Chandler litigation, began by saying she saw something and ended by saying she saw nothing. And indeed, stories were sold to tabloids, and money was paid to settle. He appears to be the only alleged victim they want to bring in. Five, Wade Robson, who tells us nothing ever happened to him. And they don't propose to bring him in as an alleged victim. They want to bring in the gang that basically has tried to accuse Mr. Jackson and get money from him for years, generally unsuccessfully, with the exception of Miss -- Mr. Francia's mother, and I've just talked about the problems in her sworn statement in discovery. The deposition is clear, she begins by saying, “I think I saw something”. She ends by saying, “I didn't see anything”. Six, Jimmy Safechuck, who we are informed says nothing happened. They don't propose to call him as an alleged victim either, but they've got the same old gang again coming in to try and capitalize on the case, people who have been adjudged to be liars, and they are. People who asked for money from tabloids, who've asked for money from Mr. Jackson, et cetera. Seven, Jonathan Spence, who we are informed says nothing happened and doesn't intend to come in to support them at all. What do they want to do? Bring in the same crew again. Third-party witnesses with an axe to grind, all of whom have wanted money in the past, none of whom can substantiate that anything happened because the alleged victim says nothing happened. The bulk of their 1108 evidence, Your Honor, are third parties with axes to grind, and who have tried to get money, and gotten money, and had the problems I just identified. Where is the fairness in allowing that kind of testimony, that kind of evidence, when their underlying case looks so weak and so problematic? I submit that the Court's concern for fairness has to be squarely addressed in this situation. If the Court saw witnesses who the Court felt had complete integrity, had never lied, never told inconsistencies, never contradicted themselves, never contradicted each other, if there were forensics to support any of them, or eyewitnesses to support any of them, the Court might say to himself, you know, “I'm really not giving Mr. Jackson an unfair trial if I let some of this in”. But it's just the opposite. And I submit the weakness and the problems in their case have made the Court's decision much more difficult. There is an issue, Your Honor, that Mr. Sneddon has raised by proposing to call third-party witnesses without the alleged victims. And that has to do with what is an offense. Because the statute, 1108, talks in terms of an offense. And every definition we can find of an offense talks in terms of a crime. And I submit to the Court that if you look at what the legal definition of an offense is, or you look at what the legal definition of proving a crime is, how can you just allow a parade of third-party characters to come in without any alleged victim? How can you do that? Because even though they didn't charge it as a crime, they still have to prove an offense. And I submit this Court, in the interests of fairness, given the problems with their case, I think has a duty to say to itself, “Can they really prove some type of offense, or some type of uncharged crime, based on what they've told us?” And the Court knows they can't. They can't do it. According to the statute, and I'm talking about 1108, sexual offense means a crime under the law of the state or of the United States. How do you prove a crime in these cases without any alleged victim? And maybe that explains why there never was a criminal prosecution in those cases, because the alleged victim say it didn't happen. I submit, Your Honor, that Evidence Code 352 is extremely broad. Just because Mr. Sneddon parades a lot of cases where the introduction of 1108 evidence has been upheld, doesn't mean there haven't been many instances where trial judges didn't use their discretion and either eliminate or whittle down what the prosecution would allow, because 352 is very, very clear. The Court must be concerned with all the issues raised in 352. And I would like to just briefly talk about the People v. Falsetta case, where the California Supreme Court upheld Evidence Code 1108. Here are the issues the Court said the trial judge must consider: Possible remoteness. Now, if you listen to Mr. Sneddon, the words “possible remoteness” mean nothing. They don't require any common sense approach. They don't require any common sense consideration. If you listen to Mr. Sneddon, he cites appellate cases which basically say possible remoteness just doesn't have any meaning, and that's not what the California Supreme Court said. The fact is, the issue of possible remoteness is in the discretion of you, Your Honor. And they can't eliminate it by citing what other Appellate Court decisions have done. Now, they're trying to bring in evidence of many, many years ago, '92, '93. This is the year 2005. The statute is clear and the Supreme Court's language is clear. If the Court thinks that these alleged acts are too remote in time to really create real evidence of a pattern, and particularly if the Court says, “I think their case has enough problems, to bring in evidence of a remote nature is going to tip the scales away from their burden of proof, away from the presumption of innocence”, I think the Court has every right and every duty to consider if these acts appear to be remote. And acts from the early '90s, uncharged, unproven, where everyone had their hand out for a buck, and where alleged victims aren't even willing to come forward and say anything happened, in fact, they're saying the opposite, I think all of that put together gives the Court a good basis to use its discretion in deciding whether or not these alleged acts are too remote in time. In People v. Falsetta, our Supreme Court then talked about the degree of certainty of its commission. How can they possibly stand before this Court and say, “We can establish a degree of certainty of the commission of these alleged offenses”, when no alleged victim is even willing to come forward and say it happened? How do you possibly convince this Court that their claims are certain when there is no victim to say they're certain? I submit this Court must consider not only the possible remoteness in time, but the degree of certainty of its commission, particularly when they have no alleged victims to come forward. Then there's the issue of the likelihood of confusing, misleading or distracting the jurors from their main inquiry. Obviously the evidence they want to bring in has nothing directly to do with the Arvizo family, who, yes, Mr. Sneddon is correct, by the time the trial ends, their reputations and their fraudulent acts will be all over the courtroom. The best is yet to come, because the mother hasn't testified to her perjury in depositions, and her perjury on welfare applications, and her defrauding disability, and her defrauding welfare and not telling either one what they're doing, where she put the money, what she said to newspapers, what she said to certain celebrities, et cetera. The best is yet to come. But nevertheless, why allow them to bring in disgruntled employees who lost their lawsuit and actually were found by a jury to have stolen from Mr. Jackson and found by a Judge that they must pay over a million in legal fees and costs? Why allow them to come in when there is no alleged victim to support anything they say? That would be highly prejudicial and highly improper, Your Honor. And to say it would prolong this trial is an understatement. Because every time one of these people comes in, we not only cross-examine them, we have to bring in our own witnesses to contradict what they say. And let's look at the numbers. One, Brett Barnes, who they say is not coming in. They want to bring in four witnesses. Two, Jordie Chandler, they want to bring in five witnesses. Three, Macaulay Culkin, they want to bring in four witnesses. Four, Jason Francia, they want to bring in himself and his mother. Five, Wade Robson, they want to bring in five witnesses. Six, Jimmy Safechuck, they want to bring in one, two, three, four, five, six, seven -- eight witnesses. Seven, Jonathan Spence, they want to bring in three witnesses. How can they possibly suggest this is not going to prolong this trial interminably, because as the Court knows, under the law, the defense has a right to defend these allegations like it would any other case. And there's no reason to think these alleged offenses would not be defended as vigorously as the case before the Court is being defended, because you can't deny a criminally accused in a situation like this the right for a full-blown opposition and a full-blown defense to these types of allegations. So how Mr. Sneddon can look at the Court and say, “Oh, it will just take maybe 25 percent of our time”, is absurd. It's going to prolong this trial interminably because we have to defend our client's reputation and life in this very serious situation. I've talked about prejudice, and prejudice again is always defined in terms of emotion. And with a problematic case like this, the problem with the emotional effect of 1108 evidence is vastly increased. So I think the Court, again, has to come back to where we started. We start with the Court's concern for fairness and justice, particularly with respect to what their case looks like, and I submit it looks real bad and it's going to get worse. The Supreme Court, in People v. Falsetta, Your Honor talked about the Court considering less prejudicial alternatives to its outright admission. Well, how to fashion a less prejudicial alternative obviously sounds problematic, because again, you can't hamstring the defense and not let them put on a full-blown defense to any allegation, no matter how flimsy it may seem to be. And when I say, “put on a defense”, I do mean exactly that. Anything which impeaches the credibility is open season. If their character or reputation for trustworthiness, as it is in this courthouse, given the trial judge's rulings in that civil case is certainly fair game. Their financial motive is certainly fair game. Who they sold their stories to is fair game. You're talking about a full-blown trial where prior statements, prior testimony, prior transcripts are all open season for the defense to defend and protect itself. I think the Court should never allow them to bring in any of this evidence if they don't have an alleged victim to support it. And they just don't. They want to bring in people to say, “I saw something. I heard something”. That simply is not acceptable. The potential prejudicial impact of that is far outweighed, far outweighs the benefits to our justice system, or any benefits the Court might think they're entitled to under the law, particularly in a weak case. The Court talks about excluding irrelevant though inflammatory details surrounding the offense. Well, they've already -- Mr. Sneddon's argument has already suggested an avalanche of time-consuming litigation in this courtroom, because what he's saying is that if Mr. Jackson spends money on someone like a mother - and indeed, Mr. Chandler's mother flew to Europe with him, stayed in luxury hotels, Monte Carlo, France; big events; buying jewelry at Cartier, clothes, gifts - yes, indeed, Mr. Jackson has done that to certain families. He also has spent millions on children with AIDS. He has gone to hospitals all over the world and contributed money to sick children. He even has a habit of doing that before a concert. He will go to hospitals and meet injured and sick children. Yes, he spends lots of money on people. But they want to suggest that because he spends money on somebody, that he somehow is doing this with a malevolent criminal, molester's type of purpose. And we can drown them with examples of where Mr. Jackson has been so benevolent, so generous, so charitable, so giving for good causes, that it will make their theory look silly. The Court is already faced with a long trial, Your Honor. You really are. We're talking about probably months more of testimony. They haven't essentially, I think, from what I've heard, really gotten to the crux of their conspiracy allegations. They've alluded to it by having the Arvizo children testify that they were falsely imprisoned three times at Neverland and went back every time and then just went home. They've alluded to it by having the Arvizo children testify to what they knew about a proposed Brazil trip. And of course when nobody wanted to go, they went home. And they've already alluded to the Arvizo children being falsely imprisoned while they went to shopping centers, while they were at their home where Miss Arvizo's boyfriend was in the United States Army, while they had access to phones, while they went into federal agencies, while they went into a Brazilian consulate, and nobody ever says, “We have a problem”, or calls the police, or does anything. Unless -- and I don't think --
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me, Counsel. I'm going to object, Your Honor. This is way off the issues that are before the Court in this particular hearing. Counsel is just making his final argument in front of the Court or the media.
The Court: All right. We'll take our morning break.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: The objection was sustained. Go ahead.
Mr. Mesereau: I didn't hear you, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection was sustained. Go ahead.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, I just have a few more points to make, and I will sit down. On the issue of undue consumption of time, I'd like to give the Court an example of what I'm talking about. One of the plaintiffs in that civil case against Mr. Jackson where the plaintiffs lost and were awarded -- Mr. Jackson was awarded over a million dollars in legal fees and costs. But someone named Adrienne McManus, her deposition, I am informed, was taken eight times in that case. That's just one witness. And apparently in her trial transcripts, which we have, she is changing her testimony so often that she gets back and forth, the testimony is prolonged, and the point I'm making is that's just one witness. Eight depositions plus six months of trial testimony. In the Jordie Chandler civil case, you had approximately five months of litigation before the case settled. You had numerous depositions and numerous pleadings in civil discovery that would be relevant and usable. Now, I want to emphasize something we said in our papers. The testimony that the prosecutor wants to introduce concerns seven alleged victims with only one scheduled to testify. This testimony has been presented to two criminal grand juries in Los Angeles and Santa Barbara, neither of which ever returned an Indictment, and it's been rejected by one civil jury in the longest civil trial in the history of this courthouse. Now, I know the prosecutor likes to say, “Well, those grand juries were purely investigative only”. But obviously the purpose, from Mr. Sneddon's point of view, to the degree he controlled anything, was to see if they could bring criminal charges. And neither grand jury brought a criminal charge. And many of the witnesses who -- not “many”, some of the witnesses who sued Mr. Jackson in the civil case also testified in these grand juries where no criminal charges were ever brought. Now, there is evidence -- excuse me, there is case law to the effect that if one is acquitted of a prior sexual offense, the evidence of the acquittal is admissible. I haven't seen anything about whether or not you can bring in the fact that a grand jury refused to indict, but certainly the fact that they went to two grand juries, there was no Indictment, they went to a civil jury, they lost, and the fact that they don't have alleged victims with the exception of one, plus you're talking about lengthy civil litigation, numerous depositions, numerous pleadings, numerous witnesses, plus the fact that the defendant has a right to defense as if it were a separately charged crime, and that means every type of defense imaginable, including rebutting the character nature of the evidence, which would mean opinion evidence, reputation evidence, and maybe specific instances of conduct, will unduly prolong the trial. Finally, Your Honor, I will get back to where I started. Evidence Code Section 352 is sacrosanct in this courtroom. It is a fundamental component of the statute of 1108. It gives this Court enormous discretion to eliminate potential for prejudice, for bias, for a prolongation of the trial that would be unproductive and not in the public interest. It allows this Court enormous discretion to make sure issues aren't confused. It enables this Court enormous discretion to make sure that the burden of proof is not fundamentally changed, that the presumption of innocence remains intact, and that Mr. Jackson has a fair trial. For the reasons I've articulated, we're asking that the prosecution's motion be denied in its entirety. Thank you.
The Court: Counsel? Rebuttal?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I think that what we've heard here this morning is something akin to a pattern that we've seen in this case, and that is reckless, exaggerated and misleading statements on the part of counsel with regard to what he believes the evidence and the testimony has produced so far in this case, and similar to ones he's made in opening statement, and I say this for this reason. I'm not going to get into a contest of saying what we believe the evidence has shown or what the credibility of the witnesses are to this Court, because this Court's been here and you've seen it for yourself. But I am going to point out that since Mr. Mesereau stood up in his opening statement and made certain assertions to the jury in this case, we've blown massive holes in his theory of this case; the witnesses that he said was -- Janet was going to do that and Janet was going to do that. The fact of the matter is they're now shifting gears from the original hypothesis to say, well, “She wasn't directly involved”, like I said in my opening statement, but now she's indirectly involved. Because we've proved otherwise. Similarly with the fingerprint evidence, you know, the fingerprints were on there because the kids touched it at the grand jury. Now we have the evidence from the people to show that those fingerprints were on magazines that weren't even in the grand jury, so they couldn't have been put on in the grand jury. Those magazines were at the Department of Justice being examined for trace evidence at the very time that the defense alleged somebody put their fingerprints on them. It's this kind of stuff that bothers me about Mr. Mesereau's statements to the Court. But rather than get in a point-by-point recitation, I'm going to rely, as I have before, and we will to the end of this case, that the Court can make up its own mind about what the Court feels that the evidence has produced in this case. I will only say this, and this will be the only thing I will say: Gavin Arvizo sat on that witness stand for almost three days. The first day he was on there for almost 40 minutes, and Mr. Mesereau was as abusive, was as mean-spirited, and was as obnoxious, frankly, as you could be to a child witness in a case. He spent the next two and a half days with binder after binder after binder coming up here and asking things. That kid didn't have a piece of paper in front of him. Not a single piece of paper. And I think it was a remarkable job that that child did. He was never once tripped up about the fundamental fact that the defendant in this case molested him. We produced evidence that have blown holes in the defendant's case, from Palanker to Coleman, and we'll have some this afternoon when the Lopezes testify; that the defense has consistently exaggerated, and misled the jury in this case, and the Court. With regard to the second part about the civil case, I think, again, this is a case where many of the things Mr. Mesereau said are completely misleading. The first thing to understand is that the issue in that case had nothing -- nothing, zero, zilch, nada, nothing to do with child molestation charges. That evidence was specifically excluded by the Court. The depositions that make reference to that information contain pages of probably less than 100 pages in that deposition devoted to that part of it. The deposition mostly, and the trial, was entirely devoted to issues of harassment, intimidation, of illegal surveillance and monitoring of conversations. It had nothing to do with the facts of this case, as we're attempting to put before the jury the uncharged offenses. Nothing. It lasted six months because the defendant in that case persistently did not show up for long periods of time. And unlike this Court, which took a very firm rein on the defendant's inability to show up on time, that Court did not. And that's why that case lasted six months. I think it's also important for this Court to know that the information that we're putting before this Court from the witnesses that are going to testify is information that was produced before that case was filed. And in fact, part of the intimidation and the harassment allegations involved in that lawsuit were the product of what happened when these people cooperated with the Santa Barbara District Attorney's Office and the Santa Barbara Grand Jury. But the fact of the matter is that the statements that were made, were made prior to the time of the lawsuit, and were made at or about the time of the investigation, and to law enforcement officers. I think once and for all, I would like to -- because I was the one involved in it, to put to rest the thing that Mr. Mesereau keeps saying over and over and over again, as if he says it enough times that somehow it's going to become the truth. It isn't the truth. It isn't factually correct. And it's simply false. The grand juries -- there weren't two separate grand juries. They were a grand jury impaneled to hear some witnesses, for the convenience of those witnesses, in Los Angeles, and there were some witnesses that were heard in Santa Barbara County. None of those witnesses, nor were there any indications to either one of those grand juries that an Indictment was being sought. And never was there any request for an Indictment, or any charges, or any information in any smallest scintilla of a way presented to those grand juries. The fact of the matter is, the grand juries never considered it simply because at that point in time, Jordan Chandler decided that he was not going to cooperate any further with the law enforcement agencies. And at that point, the grand jury, with regard to most of those witnesses, was completely shut down. Which brings me to another one of counsel's points, that somehow we can't prove a case because we don't have a victim. Well, then I guess we would never be able to prove a murder case then, would we? Because we sure as heck can't put the victim on the stand. And yet on the one hand, the defense attorney tells me that one of the reasons we have a real problem here is because we have Gavin Arvizo on the stand and we have no corroboration and we have no eyewitnesses. Yet when we have an eyewitness, it's no good anymore and we can't call them. Well, you can't have it both ways. You simply can't have it both ways. And you simply can't ignore the fact that the very things that the defense attorney's talking about in this case, there's no DNA and there's no eyewitnesses, are the very reasons that the legislature says specifically that 1108 evidence is admissible. And what would you expect, nine months later? Of course, they never bother to say that. Oh, there's no DNA. Nine months later? There's no underpants found nine months later? The very underpants that the child left there because the defendant asked him to leave them there. Would you reasonably believe that nine months later that that stuff would be there? That they didn't wash the sheets for nine months on that bed? That's preposterous, and yet this is a reason why this evidence shouldn't come in. Somehow we're to be penalized because victims don't want to show up. They don't want to go through what Gavin Arvizo went through. It takes a lot of courage to do what that young lad did. And I don't think -- as Urquiza said in his testimony, most children don't ever, in their entire life, disclose. And it's not a far stretch to believe that the reason they don't disclose is for the very reasons that we've seen in this courtroom; that no family and no child wants to go through what you have to go through to be vindicated when you're molested by an adult, by somebody you trust and somebody you loved at one point in time, as somebody you cared for. They put it behind themselves and they move on with their lives. Their lives aren't always the same, but that's what they do. With regard to Mr. Jones, counsel is correct, Mr. Jones has now recanted what he said. However, Mr. Jones is in the unenviable position of the fact that we have two witnesses to whom he made the statement, and more importantly than that, we have his own writings where he describes the incident in detail. So it's true, I don't know what he's going to say when he takes the witness stand, but the fact of the matter is, he's pinned down pretty strongly to what he saw, who the circumstances were, and who the children and the family involved were. I guess I want to just end by saying one other thing. I'm just not going to get involved in debating the issue of where we are in this case. I think as far as we're concerned, we're very pleased with where we are in this case, and pleased with the way the victims have held up and the family's held up. And I know Mr. Mesereau has made a lot of allegations about what's going to come with Janet Arvizo when she takes the stand, but I hope he does a better job than he has with the assertions he made in his opening statement with regard to certain witnesses who claim she's running around with her hand out all the time, because not one single witness in this case has said that yet. But the fact of the matter is -- if you notice, Mr. Mesereau talked a lot about facts. But we're lawyers. And the fact of the matter is, when a Court in your position is asked to make decisions of law, decisions of admissibility, decisions on the application of laws of the State of California as enacted by the legislature, the fact of the matter is, that the primary thing for this Court to look at is what other courts have done, and even more important than that, what have the higher courts in this state done in cases of a similar or like nature? And the reason that I think that the defense position not only in their written briefs to this Court, but in Mr. Mesereau's recitation to you is empty, totally empty of any evaluation or analysis of the cases that we have cited to you probably 50 cases, in our brief, is the fact that none of them support them, as a legal matter. None of them. And I have not heard one word in this an attempt to distinguish as a legal matter any of those cases that we cited to this Court. Why aren't any of those cases on remoteness applicable here? Why aren't the issues on undue consumption, why is the law on inflammatory, on prejudicial, why the cases we cited don't apply here? And I say to the Court that in the decision-making position that you're in, this is more than simply a factual analysis, it's the applying of the facts that the Court knows them to the legal principles that have been enunciated by the state and the judiciary of the State of California, that's the position that this Court is in. And unfortunately for the defense, they're in the position that they can't find a single case that supports their position, and that is the bottom line on everything that's gone on here this morning.
The Court: The arguments presented by both sides here were very good arguments, and they're arguments bringing up the law and the factors that I've been working with trying to reach a decision in this matter, which is of such great importance in this case for both sides. The arguments didn't really bring up new material, but they definitely emphasized the concerns that I've had. You know, the weighing of the case as I've heard it, the remoteness of the alleged charges that would come under 1108. But ultimately the decision I've reached, and which I'll now announce, is that I am going to permit the testimony with regard to the sexual offenses, and the alleged pattern of grooming activities, which is 1101 material, leading up to the sexual offenses against Jason Francia, Wade Robson, Macaulay Culkin, Jordan Chandler, and Brett Barnes. The witnesses that would be permitted to testify under this order would be Jason Francia, Blanca Francia, Charlie Michaels, Phillip LeMarque, Adrienne McManus, Ralph Chacon, June Chandler, Bob Jones, and Charmayne Sternberg. The evidence of alleged grooming of the other children will not be permitted. Evidence as to Jimmy Safechuck and Jonathan Spence will not be permitted. The witnesses that would be precluded under this ruling would be Jolie Levine and Mary Coller. And there was only one part of Bob Jones' testimony that I would consider admissible, that relating to the one physical act that he observed. And some of the testimony of Blanca Francia and June Chandler and Charmayne Sternberg would not be admissible. But I think if you can see the way I've divided that up, the grooming testimony is limited to those cases where there's actual physical sexual conduct that's been observed by somebody. That really is where I've drawn the line. And just to give you an example, Mr. Jones' observations over a long period of time were conclusionary and opinions that I wouldn't allow based on what he didn't see. All right. Now, the next item I want to take up is the settlement issues of whether or not the settlements are admissible. In the one case, the Chandler case, I'm going to rule that the evidence that there was a settlement may come in, the amount may not. The second issue on the other child, I'm not sure -- Mr. Sneddon, in your papers, you related to that. In your points and authorities, you related to a claim that was settled. Was there a lawsuit or not a lawsuit in that case?
Mr. Sneddon: There was not a lawsuit. It was settled prior to the commencement of -- it was settled in lieu of filing of a civil complaint.
The Court: It was settled under threat of lawsuit type of settlement.
Mr. Sneddon: That's my understanding from talking to the lawyer, yes, sir. Lawyers.
The Court: Well, again, the amount won't be admissible except -- I say that it's not admissible by the prosecution to prove anything. The defense, if they want to raise the amount to prove something -- it's not the same side -- it's not two different sides of the same coin. It's in the Court's opinion, the amount doesn't prove anything. The settlement leaves inferences. For the defense, though, the amount may prove something if they choose to use it. So I'm making a ruling that applies one way to this side and the other way to this side. That doesn't mean you have to, it just means I'm not taking that away from you. I'm taking it away from them. Now, having said what my intended ruling is, if anyone wants to address that, you may.
Mr. Mesereau: I think we're going to submit at this point, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: We may --
The Court: They can't hear you. They're all waving. Either they can't hear or they just want you to wave to them.
Mr. Mesereau: (Indicating). I think we'll submit at this point, Your Honor. We may ask for leave to revisit the issue in the future.
The Court: Yes, you may. It probably won't come up for a while. But sort of a secondary issue here today, and -- okay, I don't think there's any Other issue pending. If we have nothing else, then we'll recess until 11:30 when the jurors will be here. We'll start as soon after 11:30 as we can, because we'll have already had our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Good morning.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
The Court: Counsel, you ready to proceed?
Mr. Zonen: Yes, Your Honor. We've asked permission of the Court, by stipulation of both sides, to take a witness out of order because of his schedule, if we could.
The Court: You may do that.
Mr. Zonen: We would call George Lopez to the stand, please.
The Court: Come forward, please. When you get to the witness stand, remain standing. Face the clerk here, and raise your right hand.
Message: GEORGE LOPEZ Having been sworn, testified as follows:
George Lopez: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
George Lopez: George Lopez; G-e-o-r-g-e, L-o-p-e-z.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Mr. Zonen: May I proceed?
The Court: You may.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Lopez, good morning.
George Lopez: Good morning.
Mr. Zonen: Sir, what is your current occupation?
George Lopez: I'm a comedian/actor.
Mr. Zonen: And do you have a television show at this time?
George Lopez: I do, named “George Lopez”, on ABC.
Mr. Zonen: How long has that show been in progress?
George Lopez: The show has been on for four years.
Mr. Zonen: You're expected to go on for another four?
George Lopez: I'd like three more, and then to retire.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Lopez, prior to going on television, what were you doing professionally?
George Lopez: I was a host of a radio program in Los Angeles, which was on 92.3, Mega 92.3, in the morning.
Mr. Zonen: For what period of time did you do that?
George Lopez: From November of '99 to August of 2000.
Mr. Zonen: Have you been a stand-up comic for some period of time?
George Lopez: 25 years.
Mr. Zonen: Are you familiar with The Laugh Factory in Los Angeles?
George Lopez: Yes, sir, I am.
Mr. Zonen: And where is The Laugh Factory?
George Lopez: It's located on Sunset Boulevard --
Mr. Zonen: Is that --
George Lopez: -- in Hollywood.
Mr. Zonen: Is that a nightclub that features comedians?
George Lopez: It is.
Mr. Zonen: And have you performed there?
George Lopez: Many times.
Mr. Zonen: Over what period of time have you performed at The Laugh Factory?
George Lopez: I've probably performed there over the last 15 years.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know Jamie Masada?
George Lopez: Yes, sir, I do.
Mr. Zonen: What is Mr. Masada's association with The Laugh Factory?
George Lopez: He's the owner of The Laugh Factory.
Mr. Zonen: Are there other Laugh Factories other than the one on Sunset in Los Angeles?
George Lopez: I understand he opened one in New York.
Mr. Zonen: Have you ever appeared at the one in New York?
George Lopez: I have not.
Mr. Zonen: What is the comedy camp that's associated with The Laugh Factory? What's that?
George Lopez: Well, Jamie Masada, for years, has had a program where they took underprivileged youth and used comedians who worked the club as kind of mentors to the kids, and they would teach them stand-up, and also, you know, give them something to do, you know, with writing jokes, and performing, and stuff. And it was available during the day when nothing really was going on at The Laugh Factory.
Mr. Zonen: Do comedians periodically come by and assist with mentoring the children?
George Lopez: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: What's the criteria for being a child attending that club?
George Lopez: I think Jamie puts it out, and all -- you don't really need to pay anything, it's just whether you're interested and have, you know, a way to get to The Laugh Factory, you can sign up.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if these are children that are either at risk or disadvantaged in some fashion?
George Lopez: Most of the time they're at risk and underprivileged youth.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how many years Mr. Masada has been running the comedy camp?
George Lopez: It seems, to me, he's been doing it for about seven or eight years.
Mr. Zonen: Does he periodically solicit the assistance of the comedians from the entertainment community?
George Lopez: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: And are you one of them?
George Lopez: I am one of them.
Mr. Zonen: How many times -- and perhaps “times” is not quite the right way to ask it, but on which occasions have you assisted in working with the kids at comedy camp?
George Lopez: Over the years I've been asked several times. And I've only performed -- participated one time, and that was in the fall of '99.
Mr. Zonen: And by “one time”, does that mean one single occasion, or one camp?
George Lopez: One camp.
Mr. Zonen: And that's for a period of time of how long, then?
George Lopez: Probably -- probably seven weeks.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Were you there for the bulk of those weeks?
George Lopez: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know the Arvizo family?
George Lopez: I do.
Mr. Zonen: And do you know the children who are members of the Arvizo family?
George Lopez: Yes, I do.
Mr. Zonen: How do you know them?
George Lopez: Jamie asked me if I would participate in the camp; that there was a special Latino family that was underprivileged and they had requested me, and, you know, it was a sister and two brothers. And I said yes.
Mr. Zonen: What are their names?
George Lopez: Davellin, Gavin and Star Arvizo.
Mr. Zonen: And for what period of time did you work with those three kids?
George Lopez: I worked with them in the fall, probably from the middle of November through the end -- the middle of October till the end of November.
Mr. Zonen: What year was that; do you recall?
George Lopez: I think it was '99.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. How old were the kids, as best you recall?
George Lopez: I think Davellin was probably 15. Star was, I think, nine or ten. And Gavin was 11.
Mr. Zonen: How did they do in the comedy camp?
George Lopez: They were pretty good. They were fearless. So, you know, they talked about a lot of things that I talked about, coming from an underprivileged background. And, you know, they were fearless in their performing. And they were kind of very sweet, you know, and very kind.
Mr. Zonen: Did you work with them the entirety of that time?
George Lopez: I did.
Mr. Zonen: Did you work with other kids, or just those three?
George Lopez: I did not. Just those three.
Mr. Zonen: How many sessions do you think you had with them?
George Lopez: You know, probably like seven. On Mondays, from like 3:00 in the afternoon to about 5:00. Just two hours a week.
Mr. Zonen: Did you get to meet their mother?
George Lopez: I did.
Mr. Zonen: What is her name?
George Lopez: Her name is Janet.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Over the same period of time, did you see her?
George Lopez: You know, I only saw Janet during the period of time that we spent at The Laugh Factory.
Mr. Zonen: Was she there every time?
George Lopez: She was there.
Mr. Zonen: With the kids?
George Lopez: Every time.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how they got there?
George Lopez: They took the bus.
Mr. Zonen: Did that impress you in some way?
George Lopez: Absolutely. I mean, you know, anybody that rides the bus in Los Angeles is a hero to me. (Laughter.)
Mr. Zonen: Do you know from how far away they were coming?
George Lopez: They came from -- from East Los Angeles.
Mr. Zonen: To Hollywood; is that correct?
George Lopez: To Hollywood.
Mr. Zonen: During the period of time that you knew the Arvizos in association with The Laugh Factory, did Janet Arvizo ever ask you for any assistance in any way?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did she ever ask you for money in any way?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: This went on for a period of how many months, to your knowledge?
George Lopez: Well, the whole time that I've known the Arvizo family, it was probably eight months.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever meet the kids' father during the time that the kids were at the comedy camp?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And what is his name?
George Lopez: His name is David.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, did you become aware of the fact that one of the children became ill, seriously ill?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And how did that come about?
George Lopez: I got a phone call from Janet on my cell phone, and, you know, as any mother would be, completely distraught and was asking for help. And I went to the hospital as soon as I found out that Gavin was as sick as he was.
Mr. Zonen: The call then came from Janet?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And did you then go to the hospital?
George Lopez: I did.
Mr. Zonen: And what did you find when you got there?
George Lopez: Well, I found Gavin in dire condition. I mean, he was really just clinging to life. And that's when I met David. I had never seen him before until I showed up at the hospital.
Mr. Zonen: You didn't meet him during the time -- maybe I'm wrong about this. During the time that the kids were at the camp, at the comedy camp, that period of a couple months --
George Lopez: Right.
Mr. Zonen: -- did you meet David Arvizo?
George Lopez: I did not.
Mr. Zonen: You met him for the first time at the hospital?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know approximately how long after the completion of the comedy camp it was that Gavin became ill?
George Lopez: Probably six weeks.
Mr. Zonen: When you went to the hospital, did you go by yourself or with somebody else?
George Lopez: I took my wife with me.
Mr. Zonen: And your wife's name is?
George Lopez: Ann.
Mr. Zonen: Did you return to the hospital on other occasions to visit with Gavin?
George Lopez: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Over what period of time do you believe you went to the hospital?
George Lopez: Over the next four months.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever visit him at other locations besides at the hospital?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Where did you visit him?
George Lopez: I visited him at his home in El Monte.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Do you know this to be his home or his grandparents' home?
George Lopez: I think it was his grandparents' home.
Mr. Zonen: Can you describe that home in El Monte for us?
George Lopez: It was a tract home in El Monte that -- it was one of those places where -- probably a two-bedroom house where the living and kitchen blend into the same room, and it probably had every stick of furniture they'd ever owned in it. And it had this one room that looked like a suite out of the Four Seasons.
Mr. Zonen: And what room was that?
George Lopez: That was Gavin's room.
Mr. Zonen: And the rest of the house?
George Lopez: Reminiscent of my own childhood. Very -- you know, kind of plastic over the couch, and plastic runners on the floor, and birds, and dogs, and things like that.
Mr. Zonen: Modest?
George Lopez: Modest, to say the least.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And the one room that Gavin was in, describe that for us, as best you can.
George Lopez: That room was prepared for Gavin because he was coming out of the hospital. I think Jamie had made it so that he could get a hospital bed. And it was -- the carpet was removed, and it was kind of like a cleanroom, like a place you'd go and it was sanitary. I think you even had to wear a robe to get in.
Mr. Zonen: For the entirety of that time that Gavin was ill that you were visiting him, did you have contact with his father?
George Lopez: I did.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have contact with his mother during that time?
George Lopez: I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Can you explain that? Do you know why?
George Lopez: You know, I don't know why. When Gavin was at The Laugh Factory, I dealt with the mother. And as soon as he got sick, the mother -- I never saw the mother again, and the only person I saw was the father.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever speak with her on the telephone?
George Lopez: I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did she ever contact you other than the initial phone call to tell you that Gavin was sick?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did she ever ask you for money?
George Lopez: She did not.
Mr. Zonen: During your dealings with the father at that point, during the number of months that Gavin was ill, did he ever ask you for assistance in any way?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And when do you think was the first time, if you know?
George Lopez: Probably the first time was maybe February or March of 2000, approximately. Yeah, around there.
Mr. Zonen: But this was after Gavin became ill already?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And in what way did he ask for assistance?
George Lopez: Well, you know, he made it known that he was, you know, strapped for cash. And at that point, I would help him with whatever I had on me. You know, I'd give him, you know, $40, $50 if I had it. Whatever I had, you know. I would bring things to the hospital to try to get Gavin to eat, you know, different kind of drinks and stuff, energy drinks and things like that.
Mr. Zonen: On the two occasions that you went to the house in El Monte, did you see Janet on either of those occasions?
George Lopez: I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ask where she was?
George Lopez: You know, I did not. I just assumed that she was working. I think she was a waitress, so when I didn't see her around Gavin, I just assumed that she was working.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever ask David why Janet wasn't at the hospital?
George Lopez: I did not.
Mr. Zonen: During the period of time that Gavin was at the hospital, did you ever see Janet there?
George Lopez: I never saw her at the hospital.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Now, the requests for money from David, was that a frequent request from him?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And did you give him money on a fairly regular basis?
George Lopez: Yes. Well, I wouldn't call it fairly regular. On occasion, I would say.
Mr. Zonen: How much would you give him?
George Lopez: You know, 40 here. Whatever I had. 30, 20. I bought him a pair of shoes one time. Stuff like that. But never, you know, a check for $10,000.
Mr. Zonen: Did you become aware of the fact that there was a fund-raiser, or maybe a couple fund-raisers, being organized at The Laugh Factory?
George Lopez: I was aware that there was a single fund-raiser.
Mr. Zonen: Is this a fund-raiser that you participated in?
George Lopez: You know, I -- I have to say I don't recall.
Mr. Zonen: Have you participated in fund-raisers at The Laugh Factory before?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Is that something that's frequent at that location?
George Lopez: Yes, it is.
Mr. Zonen: When fund-raisers are held at The Laugh Factory, or any of the other entertainment clubs in Los Angeles, is there a way in which they do that? Is there kind of a traditional way that they raise money?
George Lopez: Well, the way they do it is Jamie would ask comedians to perform, and really that's your only obligation. You show up, you perform, and that's it. You're not -- really don't understand where the money goes to or any of that aspect of it. You're just there to really give your time. And then whatever they collect goes to whoever the beneficiary is of the fund-raiser.
Mr. Zonen: And by “what they collect”, what is it that they're actually collecting?
George Lopez: The donation at the door, whatever the price of the ticket is.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And can that vary?
George Lopez: Oh, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: They can make it whatever they want?
George Lopez: Whatever it is.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did David talk with you about doing a fund-raiser on his behalf, or, rather, his child's behalf?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And what was the nature of that discussion? What is it that he was asking you to do?
George Lopez: He was asking me to take care of a fund-raiser for Gavin, which I was more than happy to do. But then it became apparent to me that it wasn't about Gavin anymore. I was about how Gavin was and how he was feeling. I wasn't about money for Gavin. And it seemed to me at that time that David Arvizo was more interested in the money than he was about his son.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Was David working at the time, to your knowledge?
George Lopez: To my knowledge, I don't think he was working.
Mr. Zonen: Did he ever express to you any concerns about insurance, medical insurance?
George Lopez: I was always led to believe that they had no insurance whatsoever.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And that was from David?
George Lopez: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: You never had a conversation with Janet about that subject?
George Lopez: Never.
Mr. Zonen: She never asked you for money?
George Lopez: Never did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you come to an understanding with David that you would assist in some kind of a fund-raising effort?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And -- go ahead. That --
George Lopez: Okay. Thanks.
The Bailiff: You have to -- there you go.
George Lopez: (To the court reporter) Hello. Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: What was the nature of the fund-raiser that you were going to do, and where?
George Lopez: I was going to do a fund-raiser and use the radio to raise money for Gavin and I was going to do it at The Ice House in Pasadena. And I was going to take care -- I was going to do it myself. I was going to plan the whole thing. And because of my schedule at the radio, we kind of got a little behind. And David became, you know, pretty aggressive about when it was going to happen and how much he thought we could raise and that kind of stuff.
Mr. Zonen: What do you mean by “pretty aggressive”?
George Lopez: A lot of phone calls. A lot of, “When's it going to happen?” And, I said, you know, “I'm working right now, man. We're trying to put it together. We're trying to get guys to perform”. And every call was about the same thing.
Mr. Zonen: Did he always inquire about the money that you would raise?
George Lopez: Yes, he did.
Mr. Zonen: Did he ask about specific amounts?
George Lopez: Yeah, he did. He asked about how much I thought we could raise.
Mr. Zonen: What did you tell him?
George Lopez: I told him that with those things, you never know. I mean, you never know how much you're going to raise. And really, when I do fund-raisers, it was never about, “How much money do you think you could raise?” It was about getting it off succesfully. It wasn't about the bottom line. It was about doing a fund-raiser.
Mr. Zonen: Did he ever talk to you about doing a blood drive on behalf of his son?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And when was that going to be?
George Lopez: When -- when we -- when we found out Gavin was -- was ill and needed blood, my wife was instrumental in kind of arranging a smaller blood drive for Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Was that something that involved David Arvizo --
George Lopez: I don't believe so.
Mr. Zonen: -- or did that involve your wife?
George Lopez: My wife.
Mr. Zonen: That wasn't requested by David?
George Lopez: It was not.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if Janet Arvizo had anything to do with that?
George Lopez: I don't think so.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Was that done at The Laugh Factory, or someplace else?
George Lopez: You know, I think it was done at the Red Cross. And you just say that the blood is going to a certain person. That's how they do it.
Mr. Zonen: Now, as the -- as time went on in preparation for this benefit at The Ice House, did you get more and more calls?
George Lopez: I did.
Mr. Zonen: More and more frequently?
George Lopez: I did. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was he asking pretty much the same thing?
George Lopez: Always.
Mr. Zonen: You've dealt with other benefits for other people in need, have you not?
George Lopez: Yes, I have.
Mr. Zonen: Was there something unique about David's behavior as compared to the others?
George Lopez: Yeah. I mean, the guy was like -- you know, he was -- it was more than one call, and it was always about the same thing. And he'd call while I was on the radio, while I was working. I couldn't talk to him. And after a while, it became -- I told my wife that it was -- I told my wife Ann that it was becoming apparent to me that it wasn't a good idea to have the fund-raiser. I -- I decided not to do it because I didn't like the way it was kind of turning out.
Mr. Zonen: Was there a particular event that occurred that put you over the top on this, made you decide not to do it?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What was that?
George Lopez: On May 5th of that year, I think 2000 -- whatever the year -- 2000 -- I think, to the best of my knowledge, it's 2000. I was doing a show at the Acapulco Restaurant on May 5th from 5:00 to 10:00 in the morning in El Monte. And at ten o'clock, he approached me outside of the restaurant, right in front of the restaurant, and asked me aggressively what was the deal with the fund-raiser. And I told him that I didn't think it was going to happen. And he said, “What do you mean it's not going to happen?” And I said, “It doesn't look like it's going to happen”. And then he -- his tone changed, and we had words, and that was the last time I ever saw him.
Mr. Zonen: Did he ever call you again thereafter?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Was there an event that preceded that that affected your decision?
George Lopez: Yes. There was a situation with a wallet at my house.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Let's talk about this. Let's start with, first of all, did you ever take Mr. Arvizo and any of the kids, or Gavin, out shopping?
George Lopez: I did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did that begin with a visit to your home?
George Lopez: Yes, it did.
Mr. Zonen: And your home at that time was in what area?
George Lopez: In Sherman Oaks, California.
Mr. Zonen: Have you moved since then?
George Lopez: I have.
Mr. Zonen: Who came to your home with David Arvizo?
George Lopez: Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: Only Gavin?
George Lopez: I think Star might have come also.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Do you recall if Davellin was there?
George Lopez: She was not there.
Mr. Zonen: Where did you go that day? What did you do?
George Lopez: Well, I picked them up in El Monte. I brought them to the house, and they played in the backyard for a little bit. And then I took them to Pizza Hut and I took them to the mall, and we walked around the mall a little bit. And then I brought them home, brought them to the house and they used the rest room, and then I drove them back to El Monte.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Was Gavin still ill at this time, or had he already gone into remission?
George Lopez: He had kind of gone into a little remission. He was out of the hospital.
Mr. Zonen: But he was still going back and forth for treatment?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: How was his appearance at that time?
George Lopez: He was kind of energetic. I think he was -- you know, he was okay. He was walking around. He wasn't, you know, as frail as he was when he was in the hospital. He was doing okay.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And David was there; is that right?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you notice anything unusual about their behavior when they were in the stores?
George Lopez: Well, you know, like any kid in the mall, you know, Gavin wanted everything, and David kind of was off to the side, a little bit in the back, kind of conspicuously out -- just out of the way. He wasn't really with us. Kind of off to the side.
Mr. Zonen: Was Gavin asking for things?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And were you purchasing things for him?
George Lopez: Not everything, but a few things.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did David's behavior strike you as unusual?
George Lopez: Yeah, I think so.
Mr. Zonen: In what way?
George Lopez: In that he was, you know, a little -- he was a little, you know, distant. He was distant but yet, you know, always a little tense, you know. He was a little -- not as relaxed as somebody would be, I guess.
Mr. Zonen: Did you feel he should have been a little more responsible as a parent while his child was asking you for things?
George Lopez: Yeah. He wasn't anywhere around.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, when you finally got back home, and David left, what did you notice in the house?
George Lopez: Well, I took them home, and I came back. And we had this room that really a lot of people have. It's very popular with Mexicans. We have a room that's no one's allowed to sit in, and everything stays -- everything stays put. And it was my -- our house, and even I wasn't allowed in that room. So on the mantle, there's nothing on the fireplace mantle except this brown and black wallet. So as I walk in the house, your eyes immediately go to the mantle. It's the first thing you see. So I see this wallet, and I pick it up and it's not mine, and I open it up, and it has an I.D., Gavin's I.D. And I look, and there's a $50 bill in it, one $50 bill. So I go to the kitchen, where my wife is, and I say, “Ann, Gavin left his wallet”. So we call Gavin, tell him that he left his wallet. They say to drop it off at The Laugh Factory. We end up sending it in the mail so that we can get rid of it. And then sometime later, I understand through Jamie Masada at The Laugh Factory, that David Arvizo told Jamie Masada, who owns The Laugh Factory, that I had taken $300 out of Gavin's wallet.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Janet Arvizo never accused you --
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: -- of taking money from her son's wallet; is that correct?
George Lopez: No. That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever have a conversation with Janet Arvizo about the wallet?
George Lopez: Never.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did Janet Arvizo ever ask you for money?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; asked and answered three times.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Following this event, the conversation with Mr. Masada --
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- about the wallet, did you ever have another conversation with David Arvizo?
George Lopez: I never did. Oh, after the wallet -- after the wallet, I had the exchange on May 5th.
Mr. Zonen: Now, when you had the exchange on May 5th, did you already know -- had you already had the conversation with Mr. Masada about the wallet?
George Lopez: My wife did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you know about it at the time --
George Lopez: I did.
Mr. Zonen: -- of the conversation? Was that one of the reasons that you no longer wished to be associated with them?
George Lopez: You know, that might have put me over the top.
Mr. Zonen: Were you involved in any fund-raisers for the Arvizo family at all?
George Lopez: You know, I can't recall.
Mr. Zonen: The one that was at The Laugh Factory, you don't have a recollection of having been there?
George Lopez: You know, I think early on I may have. But I really -- I can't remember. I think -- I think the one that Fritz Coleman hosted was the one that I performed at. But it was early on, so I really can't say.
Mr. Zonen: Other than the one that you organized, or began to organize at The Ice House, were you organizing any other fund-raisers for the Arvizo family?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you give any money to any other member of the family of the Arvizo family, other than David Arvizo?
George Lopez: I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Overruled. The answer was -- is in. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: Let me have just one moment, please.
Mr. Zonen: In Janet's telephone call to you when she announced that her child was ill, did she ask for your assistance at that time in that conversation?
George Lopez: You know, other than --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
George Lopez: Can I answer?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
George Lopez: Other than just finding out her son was gravely ill and didn't know what to do, that's what I got from the call.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. I have no further questions.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, please, Your Honor.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good afternoon, Mr. Lopez.
George Lopez: Good afternoon.
Mr. Mesereau: My name is Tom Mesereau, and I speak for Michael Jackson. We've never spoken before, right?
George Lopez: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you interviewed with the Santa Barbara Sheriffs on -- last Friday, correct?
George Lopez: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And who did you interview with?
George Lopez: I interviewed with the gentleman who was just asking me the questions.
Mr. Mesereau: That's Prosecutor Zonen?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how long did you meet with Prosecutor Zonen?
George Lopez: Me personally?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
George Lopez: 25 minutes.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you with your attorney?
George Lopez: I was.
Mr. Mesereau: And your attorney is sitting here today, right?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Blancarte?
George Lopez: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you didn't want that interview to be tape-recorded, correct?
George Lopez: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: So as far as you know, there was no tape- recording of what you said, right?
George Lopez: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you told Prosecutor Zonen that you think you gave David Arvizo, in total, something less than $400, right?
George Lopez: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: And this had to do with moneys you gave him at the hospital primarily; is that correct?
George Lopez: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: But you also told Prosecutor Zonen that you went shopping with David and Gavin, and Gavin kept asking you to buy him things in front of his father, correct?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you found it kind of strange that the father never told him to stop doing that or spoke up, right?
George Lopez: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you buy him anything while you were shopping with Gavin and the father?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What did you buy Gavin?
George Lopez: You know, we took him to the Discovery Store and bought a few -- maybe like a race car track, and a ball that extends, and things like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how often would you buy -- well, let me rephrase that. How often did you go shopping with Gavin and David?
George Lopez: That was the only time.
Mr. Mesereau: Just one time?
George Lopez: Just one time.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, how many times, if you remember, did Gavin ask you to buy something for him in front of his father?
George Lopez: Four.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you buy whatever he wanted every time?
George Lopez: Well, I -- no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. You bought some of the things he wanted and didn't buy other things he wanted?
George Lopez: Kind of expensive.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't you also bring gifts to the hospital when Gavin was ill?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what gifts did you bring to the hospital?
George Lopez: You know, cast-iron cars and things like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But the money -- the actual money you donated was to David directly, correct?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever give Gavin anything directly?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, do you remember signing a declaration under penalty of perjury in this case on February 16th, 2005?
George Lopez: Um, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember testifying under penalty -- excuse me, not “testifying”. Do you remember swearing under penalty of perjury the following: “I never provided money to the Arvizos or any of them”?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, that wasn't true, was it?
George Lopez: Well, at that time I couldn't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: So on February 16th you couldn't recall, under penalty of perjury, if you gave any money to any of the Arvizos, correct?
George Lopez: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: But when you met with the prosecutor on Friday, you suddenly recalled that you gave David money on a periodic basis, right?
George Lopez: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: You gave him, what, no more than 40 or 50 bucks at a time, correct?
George Lopez: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: And you thought the total was less than $400, right?
George Lopez: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, from what you said today -- correct me if I'm wrong, I think you said that you were involved in planning for a fund-raiser, but never went through with it?
George Lopez: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you didn't go through with it because David's activities offended you, correct?
George Lopez: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You thought he was leaning on you too hard for money, right?
George Lopez: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that he was married to Janet at that time?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember signing another declaration under penalty of perjury in this case on January 18th, 2005?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said, “I have not involved” -- “I have not been involved, appeared or participated in a fund-raiser for the minor and alleged victim in the Michael Jackson case”, right?
George Lopez: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: That wasn't totally truthful, was it?
George Lopez: I could not recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So on January 18th you couldn't recall if you had any involvement in a fund-raiser, but after you signed that declaration under penalty penalty of perjury, you remembered that you were involved in some of the early planning stages; is that correct?
George Lopez: Well, I signed the -- I couldn't recall, and then I, you know, remembered.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. So that's two declarations you signed under penalty of perjury in this case, right? One on January 18th, and one on February 16th, right?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And after signing those declarations under penalty of perjury, you then remembered some other facts that, had you known at the time, you wouldn't have signed the declaration?
George Lopez: Well, at the time I couldn't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Let me go back to your discussion with Prosecutor Zonen. Okay? Now, you indicated to him that you first met the Arvizo children at the comedy camp, right?
George Lopez: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's where you met Janet, right?
George Lopez: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, Janet was always at comedy camp when you were there and saw the children, correct?
George Lopez: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told Prosecutor Zonen that the children would act on stage, correct?
George Lopez: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: And they would often act out little themes about their poverty, correct?
George Lopez: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: They would talk about not having any money, right?
George Lopez: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: They would talk about roaches in their home, correct?
George Lopez: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And Janet would be sitting there, right?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You also told Prosecutor Zonen that Janet told you a story about her children diving into a fountain for pennies, correct?
George Lopez: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, after you had finished coaching the kids at The Laugh Factory, did you ever see Janet again --
George Lopez: I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: -- to your knowledge?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So after you finished coaching the kids at The Laugh Factory, there was a period of time that elapsed between your coaching the kids, and your hearing from Janet on the phone, correct?
George Lopez: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: She called you up very upset that Gavin was seriously ill, right?
George Lopez: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: And asked for assitance of some kind. I'm not saying it was financial assitance, but she asked you to help, right?
George Lopez: More emotional assistance.
Mr. Mesereau: But she also asked you to go to the hospital, correct?
George Lopez: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: You went to the hospital?
George Lopez: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: You went there many times to help Gavin when he was ill?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When you first got to the hospital to see Gavin, you saw David; is that correct?
George Lopez: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And every time you went to the hospital to see Gavin, you never saw Janet, you always saw David, right?
George Lopez: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How many times do you think you visited Gavin at the hospital when you saw David?
George Lopez: Approximately ten.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And these are the visits when you often brought gifts for Gavin, right?
George Lopez: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: You brought food, right?
George Lopez: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And what else did you bring him?
George Lopez: You know, the car occasionally. But other times I just -- I just went.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
George Lopez: You know, I didn't bring something every time I went.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, would David try to hit you up for money at the hospital?
George Lopez: What he would do is he would, you know, imply how bad off he was doing, you know.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was pretty often, wasn't it?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
George Lopez: Every time I saw him.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never discussed his financial situation with Janet, because she never was around, correct?
George Lopez: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, after you had helped David with the cash you gave him, and after you had helped Gavin with the gifts you bought him, at some point Janet called you up and thanked you for what you'd done for the family, correct?
George Lopez: I don't recall getting a phone call from Janet.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't you tell the prosecutors that at some point Janet called you up and thanked you for the nice things you'd done for the family?
George Lopez: I didn't speak to her.
Mr. Mesereau: You never -- she never called you and said thank you?
George Lopez: She never called me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, you thought the family lived in El Monte, correct?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And why did you think they lived in El Monte?
George Lopez: Because every time I went to see Gavin, that's where I went, to the -- to the grandparents' house.
Mr. Mesereau: And why did you go to that location? Did someone tell you that's where they lived?
George Lopez: That's where David told me to go.
Mr. Mesereau: And you assumed that that's where they lived, right?
George Lopez: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You never saw David at comedy camp, correct?
George Lopez: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. It was always Janet. But suddenly when he got ill, it seemed like it changed. You always saw David and you never saw Janet?
George Lopez: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know what time of day you often went to the hospital?
George Lopez: I usually went after I got off the radio, probably around 11:00 or 12:00.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when you were coaching the kids at comedy camp, you often took them to eat, right?
George Lopez: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And Janet would be with you, correct?
George Lopez: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would treat the whole family to food, right?
George Lopez: Well, snacks.
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah. But, I mean, you did that quite often for them, didn't you?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And they always appeared grateful for what you had done?
George Lopez: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: They seemed like a nice family, right?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. You participated in their graduation ceremony at the comedy club, right?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was, what, about three or four months in duration?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And approximately what months were they?
George Lopez: You know, I can't recall what month that was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, between the comedy camp ending and Janet calling you to talk about the hospital, how much time elapsed, if you remember?
George Lopez: Six weeks.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right.
George Lopez: Over the holidays of that year. Probably six weeks.
Mr. Mesereau: And Janet asked you to come and spend time with Gavin, right?
George Lopez: Well, he was -- you know, he was sick, so I went to see him.
Mr. Mesereau: But she asked you to go spend time with him, right?
George Lopez: You know, I don't know if she particularly asked. But when -- you know, I was a fan of Gavin's. So when he was not well, I went to the hospital to see him as a friend.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you a police report where it says you told the police “Janet asked George if he would come spend time with Gavin”?
George Lopez: It could.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Lopez, have you had a chance to see that report?
George Lopez: I saw it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Does it refresh your recollection about what you told the sheriff?
George Lopez: It does not.
Mr. Mesereau: It does not?
George Lopez: I mean, you know, if she asked me to -- you know, here's the difference. I mean, did she formally ask me? She said Gavin was ill and I went to the hospital. There wasn't a formal invitation.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you didn't tell the sheriffs that, “Janet asked George if he would come spend time with Gavin”?
George Lopez: You have to repeat the question.
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah, okay. I'm asking you if, in your interview last Friday, you told the sheriffs Janet asked you if you would come spend time with Gavin in the hospital?
George Lopez: Well, in a sense, that's what that is. That's what that phone call was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, you began visiting Gavin with your wife, correct?
George Lopez: My wife went the first time, and on a couple other occasions maybe. But for the most part, I would go right after I got off the radio, so I would go by myself. I would try to sneak away to see Gavin as much as I could, when I could.
Mr. Mesereau: Right. And that's when you brought him gifts and snacks?
George Lopez: Well, not every time, but on occasion.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you find it strange that you never saw Janet at the hospital?
George Lopez: Well, you know, I -- I mean, I knew she was a waitress, so I thought -- I really thought she was working. I'd just say that I never really -- I wasn't there all the time, so I didn't know whether she was there when I wasn't there. But every time I went, she wasn't there, so I just figured that she was always working.
Mr. Mesereau: You really don't know if she was working, do you?
George Lopez: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And you may have thought she was a waitress, but you really don't know where she was waiting tables, right?
George Lopez: She never served me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And never told you where she was working, right?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And David never told you where she was working, right?
George Lopez: Never did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. How agressive was David in asking for money?
George Lopez: You know, it was -- it was pretty aggressive. I mean -- I mean, when you're two guys talking, and the subject always comes up, it -- you know, you kind of get turned off to it. Every time we spoke, it was always about -- really about money.
Mr. Mesereau: And he always said he had no way to pay the family's bills, right?
George Lopez: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: And you gave him little amounts that you had in your pocket at the time?
George Lopez: Yeah, I only had little amounts at the time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you -- and you told the sheriffs you never turned down -- David never turned down any gesture of kindness you offered him?
George Lopez: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: He always wanted money, didn't he?
George Lopez: He did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. You thought the largest money you gave him at one point was 80 bucks?
George Lopez: Probably around there, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right.
George Lopez: I literally would give the guy everything I had in my wallet and just figured I'd get more later.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did he ever tell you that he was giving any of his money to Janet?
George Lopez: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You don't know one way or the other, do you?
George Lopez: I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, do you know Louise Palanker?
George Lopez: You know, I don't know Louise Palanker.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever heard her name?
George Lopez: Yeah, I heard her name here.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
George Lopez: And on E!
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You don't know anything about her -- you don't know anything about her giving 10,000 bucks to Janet, do you?
George Lopez: I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know anything about her giving 10,000 bucks to David, do you?
George Lopez: No, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear about that?
George Lopez: You know, I think it's odd when a comedian has $10,000 period, you know, so I never -- (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Okay. Now, at some point David started bragging to you about Neverland Ranch, didn't he?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you thought his attitude changed, correct?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You thought he got kind of - what's the word? - snooty or snobby? Would that be the right word?
George Lopez: Enamored.
Mr. Mesereau: Enamored. That's how you described David's attitude after he told you the family had gone to Neverland Ranch?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And he told you that Michael Jackson had given a truck to his family, correct?
George Lopez: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You described him to the sheriffs as “smitten” by his new-found association with Michael Jackson, correct?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you learned at some point that Michael Jackson was calling Gavin at the hospital, right?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And someone told you he was calling him at -- sometimes late at night and having long chats with Gavin, correct?
George Lopez: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: Did David tell you that?
George Lopez: I think maybe -- yeah, I think maybe David did.
Mr. Mesereau: All right.
George Lopez: In the room, in the hospital room.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point, you thought David was extremely engrossed with money and possessions, true?
George Lopez: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Because when you visited them in El Monte, he showed off that room with the DVD and all the rest, correct?
George Lopez: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: That's the room that you described as like the Four Seasons, right?
George Lopez: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever know who paid to renovate that room?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You don't know if the person who renovated that room was paid or not, correct?
George Lopez: I did not know that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did David ever talk about how that room became so nice?
George Lopez: No. My assumption was that it was Jamie Masada that had arranged that.
Mr. Mesereau: But you don't know for sure?
George Lopez: But I don't know for sure.
Mr. Mesereau: And if Jamie arranged it through Louise Palanker, you don't know about that?
George Lopez: I don't know about that.
Mr. Mesereau: And if the contractor who did it was never paid, you don't know about that either?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as speculative and testimony. The witness has repeatedly said he doesn't know.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you told the sheriffs, Mr. Lopez, you thought David Arvizo was particularly enamored with the big-screen television and the Nintendo, correct?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You said you noticed this to a small degree with the children as well, correct?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But not to the extent that David seemed like he wanted to impress you with his new possessions?
George Lopez: Very pleased.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You told the sheriff that David -- everything about David seemed to be about money, right?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You went to the El Monte address about two times, correct?
George Lopez: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And David was there both times, right?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who else was there during those visits?
George Lopez: The grandparents.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever see the children there?
George Lopez: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were all three children there, to your knowledge, on both visits?
George Lopez: You know, I can't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
George Lopez: But I think Star was always kind of around Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you see Davellin?
George Lopez: On occasion, but I don't remember her being there.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, who arranged your visits to the El Monte address?
George Lopez: I would arrange them with David.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. When you went shopping with David and Gavin, were Star or Davellin present?
George Lopez: I think Star was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you seemed, in your interview with the sheriffs, to particularly recall Gavin asking you to buy things for him, right?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You never mentioned to the sheriffs that Star was asking you to buy things for him, correct?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And you thought it rather odd the father never just said a word as the son looked at you and said, “Buy this for me”?
George Lopez: It would have been nice if he stepped in.
Mr. Mesereau: But he never did, right?
George Lopez: Never did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever talk to him about it?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever ask him, “Why are you letting your son just keeping leaning on me like this”?
George Lopez: He's not my kid.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, would Gavin just typically come up to you and point at something and say, “Would you buy that for me?”
Mr. Zonen: I'll object to “typically”. Talking about one event.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it. No, it's not -- Your Honor, we're not talking about one event. It's one day.
Mr. Zonen: Then it's vague for exactly that reason.
Mr. Mesereau: You went shopping with him on one particular day, right?
George Lopez: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: You went to a number of stores, correct?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Gavin was with you, right?
George Lopez: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: David was with you?
George Lopez: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: And you think Star was with you?
George Lopez: I can't remember, but I think.
Mr. Mesereau: And in various stores, Gavin would point to items and ask you to buy them for him?
George Lopez: You know how a kid does in a store, “Can you buy me this?” And --
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah.
George Lopez: -- “Oh, I really” -- it's the old, you know, “Oh, I really like this”.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, but he wasn't looking at his father and saying, “I really like this”.
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: He was always looking at you, with the father standing right there, correct?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And you told the sheriffs, “David seemed to intentionally stand back and make no effort to rein in Gavin's requests”?
George Lopez: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You thought that was strange, right?
George Lopez: Seemed odd.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you take them to lunch that day?
George Lopez: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you take them to lunch on any other days; do you know?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, where did you see the wallet?
George Lopez: The wallet was on the fireplace mantle of my house. It was the only thing on the mantle.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you saw it, how did you think it got there?
George Lopez: You know, it never occurred to me how it got there, because, you know, they -- nobody played in that room, so it was kind of odd that a wallet would end up on that -- on that mantle.
Mr. Mesereau: And how high up was the mantle?
George Lopez: You know, shoulder height.
Mr. Mesereau: Taller than Gavin, wasn't it?
George Lopez: At that time, maybe.
Mr. Mesereau: So, did it seem peculiar to you that suddenly a wallet's just lying there?
George Lopez: Well, being that in that room, really nothing's supposed to be in there, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Had you seen Gavin or David in that room?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long had they been at your house?
George Lopez: Well, the beginning -- when I first dropped them off, they played in the backyard probably about 45 minutes to an hour. And then we went to the mall and then came back. They just really came back to use the rest room, because the drive was a little far, so not much time.
Mr. Mesereau: And you testified, I believe, there was a $50 bill in Gavin's wallet?
George Lopez: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And there was also an I.D. card, correct?
George Lopez: A school I.D.
Mr. Mesereau: That was for Gavin, right?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told the sheriffs you thought it was odd that Gavin would have $50 in a wallet, right?
George Lopez: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Not to mention the wallet sitting up on the mantle in that room?
George Lopez: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what's the first thing you did when you opened the wallet, saw that Gavin's name was on an I.D. card, and there's a $50 bill in it? What's the first thing you did?
George Lopez: The first thing I did was show it to my wife, who was in the kitchen.
Mr. Mesereau: And then what did you do?
George Lopez: Then we called the Arvizo house and made arrangements to get the wallet back to them.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you get it back to them?
George Lopez: We sent it.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you call the Arvizo home?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who did you talk to?
George Lopez: My wife called, and I think she spoke to David.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. David said, “Just send it to the house”?
George Lopez: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
George Lopez: Well, he wanted us to take it to The Laugh Factory, but we ended up sending it to the house.
Mr. Mesereau: Who first talked to you about planning the fund-raiser for Gavin?
George Lopez: You know, at that time I was having conversations with David, so -- and being in the hospital, so I think it was between David and I and my wife.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you told the sheriffs David was particularly persistent and aggressive about how much money they were going to make, right?
George Lopez: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And you are still never seeing Janet during any of this, right?
George Lopez: No. That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Never see her at the hospital, and she never goes to your house, right?
George Lopez: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point, your wife confronted David about his constant requests for money, right?
George Lopez: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And he got kind of nasty, didn't he?
George Lopez: He did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you there?
George Lopez: I was not there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you heard about it?
George Lopez: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And that sort of started a downhill slide in your relationship with the whole family, right?
George Lopez: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point you cut off all relationships with that family, correct?
George Lopez: That's true.
Mr. Mesereau: And you called off any work that you were doing on the benefit?
George Lopez: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And I think you said David tried to repeatedly call you at the radio station, right?
George Lopez: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you take his calls?
George Lopez: I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you tell anybody to tell them, “Stop the calls”?
George Lopez: Well, he called usually when we were on the air, but I wasn't going to take the call after his conversation with my wife.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, at some point you told David there's not going to be any benefit, right?
George Lopez: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: And actually, that wasn't really correct, was it? You just weren't going to work on it anymore?
George Lopez: I wasn't going to do the one that I was planning.
Mr. Mesereau: There was some others being planned you knew about?
George Lopez: I think so, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you know about them? Through Jamie?
George Lopez: Through Jamie.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Jamie seem to be your main source of your information about the Arvizo family, other than what you saw directly?
George Lopez: Yeah, that's how I met them. And pretty much, you know, everything was kind of going through Jamie. He was kind of the guy that everybody talked to.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. David tried to make you feel guilty about not helping Gavin at that point, didn't he?
George Lopez: Um, yes. At the point of May 5th, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told him basically he's an extortionist, correct?
George Lopez: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: That wasn't a pleasant conversation, was it?
George Lopez: It was not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
George Lopez: And I don't use big words like that, you know. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, after you called him an extortionist, what happened next?
George Lopez: You know, it was pretty -- it was a pretty heated exchange. And after that, he left. And, you know, I got -- I got to be honest with you, after that, I had no conversations with Gavin or any of the Arvizos after May 5th of that day.
Mr. Mesereau: You then learned at some point from Jamie Masada that Jamie had given David some money supposedly to make up for what he claimed was lost from the son's wallet?
George Lopez: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: And the implication was that you had taken it --
George Lopez: That I had taken it.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never took a thing, right?
George Lopez: I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you upset with Masada that he would even pay him something?
George Lopez: I was. Yeah, I was.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you complain to Masada?
George Lopez: I did. I said, “How could you do that?”
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And he basically said to you, he wanted to make peace, or words to that effect?
George Lopez: Words to that effect.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, are you certain you never performed with Fritz Coleman at a benefit for Gavin?
George Lopez: You know, I'm not certain.
Mr. Mesereau: So you may have done that?
George Lopez: I may have.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, did anyone ever mention to you anything about a J.C. Penney lawsuit while you knew the Arvizos?
George Lopez: You know, I did not know about that until -- until after my -- all ties were broken.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how did you learn about the J.C. Penney lawsuit?
George Lopez: I think I learned about that from --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as irrelevant and hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall, sometime after your relationship soured with the Arvizos, Janet gave you a key chain?
George Lopez: She did.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that?
George Lopez: That might have been maybe six months after our -- my dealings with David.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So six months after you pretty much severed your ties with the family?
George Lopez: Yeah, a key chain showed up.
Mr. Mesereau: She approached you, correct?
George Lopez: You know, I can't recall how I got it.
Mr. Mesereau: She gave you a key chain as a way of thanking you for what you'd done for the family, correct?
George Lopez: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know where that happened?
George Lopez: You know, I don't. I can't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Do you know approximately when it was?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember speaking to her when she gave you the key chain?
George Lopez: You know, I can't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you told the sheriffs, in your mind, it was her way of thanking you for what you had done for the family. You told them that in your interview, correct?
George Lopez: I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, obviously it goes without saying if Janet and David were discussing ways to get money from people, you weren't there?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as speculative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You spent very little time in their home, correct?
George Lopez: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said they were from East L.A. Did you mean El Monte?
George Lopez: You know, I only know El Monte. So if I said “East L.A”., I meant El Monte.
Mr. Mesereau: When you say “El Monte”, you don't mean East L.A. is El Monte, do you?
George Lopez: Well, you know, any Chicano knows better than that.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, let me ask you this: You said --
George Lopez: That's Chicano 101. East L.A. is not El Monte. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: Right. Well, let me ask you this: You said that when you first started at the comedy club, they were taking a bus from East L.A., right?
George Lopez: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: But you said when you visited their home, you went to El Monte.
George Lopez: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: So you never really visited a home for the Arvizos in East L.A., correct?
George Lopez: I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: But they told you they were from East L.A., true?
George Lopez: Yeah. You know, I never really thought about their geographic location whatsoever.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So did it ever occur to you that there may be two residences?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, if they said they were taking a bus from East L.A., but they took you to their home in El Monte, doesn't that suggest two residences?
George Lopez: I never thought about it.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, as you think about it now --
George Lopez: I was way off. But once they got on the bus, my contact with them ended.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. No further questions. Thank you.
George Lopez: All right.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Lopez, you understood that the El Monte home was the home that had the cleanroom for Gavin in it; is that correct?
George Lopez: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: And that was his grandmother's home, the grandparents' home?
George Lopez: Right.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever ask how many people actually lived in that residence?
George Lopez: I never asked, but it just looked like maybe five.
Mr. Zonen: And it had been sometime earlier when you were told that they were coming from East L.A. was in conjunction with the kids attending the comedy camp; is that right?
George Lopez: Right.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any reason to believe that wasn't true?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did anybody ever take you to an address -- a studio apartment on Soto Street for purposes of showing you how impoverished they were?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did anybody say anything about a residence on Soto Street for purposes of showing you how impoverished they were?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Now, the story about the kids diving into the fountain, was that a story that was given to you by Janet?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And was that in the presence of her children?
George Lopez: They might have been in the room, around the room, yeah. It was kind of more of a joke than an actual admonishment.
Mr. Zonen: The kids were laughing at the story, weren't they?
George Lopez: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: What was it that she said about it?
George Lopez: She said she had taken the kids to the mall, and in the center of the mall there was a fountain that people would throw coins in. And she had turned her back, and when she turned back, all three kids were in the water getting coins.
Mr. Zonen: What did she do?
George Lopez: She told them to get out. And, you know, at that time everybody was pointing at the kids, like, “Whose kids are these?” And she told the kids to put the money back.
Mr. Zonen: And they did so?
George Lopez: They did.
Mr. Zonen: Did David Arvizo ever explain to you why Janet wasn't in the home (sic)?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did he ever talk to you about her having difficulty with dealing with things?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; vague.
The Court: Sustained; leading.
Mr. Zonen: Were you concerned at the -- what you were finding at the hospital when you found out that Gavin had been visiting with Michael Jackson at his ranch?
George Lopez: Well, when I went to see Gavin during the day, he was, you know, asleep. He was, you know, tired, really tired and stuff.
Mr. Zonen: That was in conjunction with David telling you he was on the phone for hours at a time in the middle of the night?
George Lopez: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; move to strike.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: The key chain that Janet gave you, what did she tell you about that key chain?
George Lopez: You know, I don't really remember much about the key chain other than her giving me this thing, “Thank you”. I think it was a -- had a mustard seed in it or something.
Mr. Zonen: A little mustard seed amulet?
George Lopez: Yeah, something like that.
Mr. Zonen: Was it a new one or something that she had?
George Lopez: It was kind of pewter, so it -- it kind of looked old. Pewter stuff looks old.
Mr. Zonen: And she told you that was in appreciation for your help?
George Lopez: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: When she called you and had that conversation about her child being ill, would you have gone to the hospital regardless of whether she asked you?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; calls for speculation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: What was your intent when she called you and notified you of her child's illness?
George Lopez: You know, when I was -- the first time I met the Arvizos at The Laugh Factory, you know, I really enjoyed their company, and the kids were great. And I had a really good time teaching them, and they were fun, you know, so -- and, you know, I'd take them and buy them things after, snacks. And I kind of invested in them, because I saw a lot of myself in their family. So when I got the call that he wasn't well, you know, I did what any friend would do, is go to the hospital.
Mr. Zonen: You said you were a big fan of Gavin. What do you mean by that?
George Lopez: He's a great kid. I mean, he had a lot of spirit. And he was fearless and -- you know, he did little dances and stuff. It was great.
Mr. Zonen: Even when he was asking you to buy things for him at the shopping mall?
George Lopez: I don't know if he danced and asked at the same time, but he was always kind of, you know, interesting.
Mr. Zonen: When you said you cut off the family, did that have anything to do with the rest of the family beyond David?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; vague; asked and answered.
Mr. Zonen: It's certainly not asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer. Would you want the question read back?
George Lopez: Yeah. That would be nice. Thank you.
The Court Reporter: When you said you cut off the family, did that have anything to do with the rest of the family beyond David?
George Lopez: It was -- it was everyone in the family. At that time I was only having conversations with David by phone. And when that happened, I never spoke to anyone in the family again.
Mr. Zonen: You're saying you cut off everybody in the family?
George Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: But your reason for doing so -- what were your reasons for cutting off the other members of the family besides David?
George Lopez: Was, you know, that the guy was aggressively trying to get money from me. And when I cut him off, you know, the rest of the family followed. I wasn't going to talk to Gavin behind his father's back, and -- you know, the altercation we had May 5th, he used that, you know, against me, because I said to him, you know, “I only” -- “I've only tried to help you”. And he said, “You've helped me?” And at that point, it was just -- you know, kind of the wind went out of my sails. And then he said, “What am I supposed to tell Gavin?” And I said, “Tell him his father's an extortionist”.
Mr. Zonen: Was there anything that Davellin, Star or Janet did to contribute to your cutting off the family or your attention?
George Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. No further questions.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down.
George Lopez: Thanks.
Mr. Zonen: And we'll call Ann Lopez to the stand.
The Court: Come to the witness stand, please. When you get to the witness stand, remain standing. Face the clerk over here and raise your right hand.
Message: ANN SERRANO LOPEZ Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Ann Lopez: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Ann Lopez: Ann Serrano Lopez; A-n-n, S-e-r-r-a-n-o; Lopez, L-o-p-e-z.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Mr. Zonen: May I proceed?
The Court: Yes.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: I guess my first question is, what is it like being married to George Lopez?
Ann Lopez: A lot of fun.
Mr. Zonen: And you are married to George Lopez?
Ann Lopez: Yes, I am married to George Lopez.
Mr. Zonen: Tell me a little bit about yourself. Are you currently working?
Ann Lopez: I'm an independent television producer, and a mother, and -- what else would you like to know?
Mr. Zonen: You've been married to Mr. Lopez for how long?
Ann Lopez: For eleven and a half years.
Mr. Zonen: And prior to that, what profession were you in?
Ann Lopez: I was a television producer and a casting director.
Mr. Zonen: What does a television producer do? We all know the term. None of us know what they actually do.
Ann Lopez: We find projects to produce. So let's say I would find a property that I would want to make into a movie, and secure a writer, secure the production company that would produce it for me. Secure -- secure the actors. And just make sure the entire production gets off on budget.
Mr. Zonen: You've been married to George Lopez how long?
Ann Lopez: Eleven and a half years.
Mr. Zonen: And you have one child?
Ann Lopez: One child.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, did you become aware -- were you aware of the fact that your husband would periodically perform at The Laugh Factory?
Ann Lopez: Oh, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know Jamie Masada?
Ann Lopez: Yes, very well.
Mr. Zonen: Were you ever introduced to the Arvizo family?
Ann Lopez: Only in the hospital after Gavin got ill. I was home with our daughter, so I didn't ever go to the comedy camp.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know that your husband was a mentor to the three children --
Ann Lopez: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: -- in conjunction with the comedy camp?
Ann Lopez: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. At some point in time, did you become aware that one of those three children had become ill with cancer?
Ann Lopez: Yes. It was around two months after the graduation.
Mr. Zonen: Did you visit with him at the hospital? And “with him”, I mean Gavin.
Ann Lopez: Yes, I actually met Gavin in the hospital.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Had you ever had a conversation with Gavin's mother prior to his being stricken with cancer?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever meet her?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did she ever call you prior to that?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Have you ever actually met her at any time?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. So you wouldn't be able to recognize her if you saw her?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did you ever have any telephone conversations with her at all?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: When did the telephone conversations begin?
Ann Lopez: The first telephone conversation was when Gavin was stricken with cancer. She called our home very distraught, and George spoke to her. And then I got on the phone to comfort her about her sick child.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And did you get on the phone and have a conversation with her at that time?
Ann Lopez: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And did she tell you the extent of the illness that she was dealing with?
Ann Lopez: Yes. She talked about the cancer.
Mr. Zonen: Did she say anything to you about the description of the cancer that he had, or the diagnosis, or the prognosis?
Ann Lopez: Just that it was very grave; that there was a very large tumor, 10, 11, 12, something like that, pounds in his cavity, and that they were going to have to take out a kidney, I believe, and maybe a spleen; that there were -- you know, it was -- that there was spots on his lung. They had found spots on the lung. So it was, very, very severe.
Mr. Zonen: How often did you go to the hospital?
Ann Lopez: I went less than my husband. Probably six, seven times.
Mr. Zonen: The hospital we're talking about, can you tell us which hospital it is and where?
Ann Lopez: I believe it was Kaiser Permanente.
Mr. Zonen: And do you know where, the location?
Ann Lopez: In Los Angeles, I think, towards downtown.
Mr. Zonen: The Sunset and Vermont hospital facility?
Ann Lopez: That's where it was, uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: When you got there, or any of the times that you went there, did you ever see Janet?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever talk with her on the telephone while you were at the hospital?
Ann Lopez: Yes. When she would call I would get on the phone and speak to her, and just try to comfort her.
Mr. Zonen: Were those frequent conversations?
Ann Lopez: No. Maybe two or three times.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. How often do you think it was that you visited Gavin at the hospital?
Ann Lopez: Between six and eight times. I'm not sure exactly how many.
Mr. Zonen: Was David there?
Ann Lopez: Always.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, David is who?
Ann Lopez: David is Gavin's father.
Mr. Zonen: And his last name?
Ann Lopez: Arvizo.
Mr. Zonen: On each of the times that you were there, he was there?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you go on a -- when you went to the hospital to visit, was it always at a certain time frame?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Would it be at various times during the day?
Ann Lopez: Yes. Sometimes in the afternoon. Sometimes in the evening. It just depended on my husband's schedule.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ask Mr. Arvizo, David Arvizo, where his wife was?
Ann Lopez: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And what did he tell you?
Ann Lopez: He told me that she was just distraught; that she couldn't handle being there at the hospital; that she would break down; and that she emotionally couldn't handle it.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have concerns about that?
Ann Lopez: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have conversations with David Arvizo about his financial state?
Ann Lopez: He had conversations with me about his financial state.
Mr. Zonen: And tell me the distinction.
Ann Lopez: Well, he would hint that they were having financial problems, and would tell me he wasn't sure how they were going to pay their bills or how they were going to pay the rent. Also, he told me that they were living in a studio apartment, and he didn't know how he was going to get Gavin's hospital bed and how Gavin could go back to that place.
Mr. Zonen: This is early on, I. Assume?
Ann Lopez: The very first visit.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did you know where they were living, where their residence was?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever go to visit them at his home?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Or did you go to visit Gavin at the time that Gavin was out of the hospital in a residence?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: So you don't know necessarily where they were living?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What did you think about his initial comment on that first visit about his financial state? What did you understand was going on?
Ann Lopez: Well, it seemed to me that, you know, they were a lower income family. He was taking a leave of absence from his job. He told me that. And he said that one of them had to work to make money for the family. And I found it a little strange that it would be Janet because he said that she was a waitress. And I thought, well, a waitress doesn't make as much as he was making. And he was also -- he had told me his job was the job that had medical care, the medical insurance.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you any -- did he express concern to you about his medical insurance?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did he have any conversation with you at all about who was paying the bills?
Ann Lopez: No, he just said it was covering the expenses and that his job covered the medical insurance. It wasn't until one of the later visits that he said he was worried that the insurance was going to run out. And I told him “Then, well, you should go back to work”.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you that he was concerned the insurance would run out because he was not at work?
Ann Lopez: Yes, because his leave of absence was already very long, and he -- if he didn't go back to work, then the medical insurance would lapse.
Mr. Zonen: What did you tell him?
Ann Lopez: I told him he should go back to work and get on with it, and get his insurance for his son; that that was the most important thing, that his son was covered with medical insurance.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, did you make a decision, perhaps with your husband or by yourself, as to whether or not the Lopez family would be contributing money from your own pockets to David Arvizo?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And what was that decision?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Had you talked with David about that specifically?
Ann Lopez: No. I just -- from the very beginning, I saw things that just seemed very strange to me. I didn't know them at all. This was the first meeting. David and I walked -- let George have some time with Gavin the first meeting and be in the room. And there was like a glass partition. So David and I stepped out and we were talking. And, you know, at first it was very normal. He was very concerned about his son and the medical attention. But when he walked back into the room, I noticed that the children shied away from him. And there was no -- there was no closeness, there was no touching. I didn't see anything that would indicate that there was a bond between these children and their father, especially at such a difficult time. And then when he told me that Janet was not going -- was not going to be at the hospital, I also found that -- being a mother, I found that very strange. Here was this woman that would take the bus to take her three children to comedy camp for months on end, but she can't be at the hospital with her sick child. That just seemed very strange to me. So I thought there was something a little off there.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever have David Arvizo and any of his children at your home?
Ann Lopez: Yes, we did.
Mr. Zonen: On more than one occasion?
Ann Lopez: Just once.
Mr. Zonen: And when was that; do you recall?
Ann Lopez: It was -- I'm not sure exactly the time frame. I was home with my daughter who was very young. But it was one time when George wanted to visit him in the hospital, and David was -- I mean, excuse me, Gavin was out of the hospital. And so George said, “Is it okay if we bring him to our house?” And I said, “Sure”. So they came and visited.
Mr. Zonen: And you were living where at the time?
Ann Lopez: In Sherman Oaks.
Mr. Zonen: That's not where you live currently?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. When he came to your household, what did you do that day?
Ann Lopez: David and Gavin -- George went and picked up David and Gavin and brought them to our home. And we have a very large swing set in the back, and they were playing on the swing set, and meeting my daughter, and Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: Gavin was how old at the time?
Ann Lopez: Ten and a half. Between 10 and 11. I'm not sure.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Go ahead.
Ann Lopez: And it was a hot day. So I said to George, “You know, maybe we should” -- I didn't feel it was very good for him to be in the heat. And I said, “Well, maybe we should just go take them to eat and maybe just go see a movie or something”. So we took them to Pizza Hut, and he and my daughter played video games, and we had pizza. And then we took them to the mall.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. What did you notice about anyone's behavior at the mall, either David or Gavin?
Ann Lopez: Well, Gavin was running in and out of stores like -- you know, we were going into stores and things, and buying him some toys and things like that. By it got to be a little overboard where he was asking for, like, three or four toys at every store. And I kept looking over at David, and David would just walk away, like -- you know, and -- which made it -- you know, he wasn't saying anything to Gavin like, “Okay, Gavin, that's enough”, trying to rein him in at any point. I mean, it was like he definitely walked away and, you know, made us feel like, “Okay, buy him what he wants”. So....
Mr. Zonen: Give me a sense of how long after you received that initial call about Gavin's illness did this visit occur to your home and to the shopping mall.
Ann Lopez: Oooh, I'm not sure exactly, but about six months, I would think.
Mr. Zonen: Was Gavin doing better at that time?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was he still involved in treatment?
Ann Lopez: Oh, yes.
Mr. Zonen: But at the time that he was visiting you, he was --
Ann Lopez: He was in remission, yes.
Mr. Zonen: He was in remission at that point and able to walk around?
Ann Lopez: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: Did he appear to you to be still frail or --
Ann Lopez: Yes, that's why I didn't want him to be in the heat. He was walking around, but he still was very pale. He didn't have any hair. He was still a very sick boy.
Mr. Zonen: When you got home after the visit to the shopping mall, and Gavin and David left, did you notice anything in the house?
Ann Lopez: I did not. I just went straight to the kitchen. I started to get -- started to prepare dinner. And when George came home, I heard him say, “Hey, what's this?” And I walked into the living room, which we barely used, and there was a wallet on the mantle. And I said, “Well, open it, and find out what it is”. And it was, you know, a velcro -- normal little velcro wallet, and it was Gavin's school I.D. and there was a crisp $50 bill in it, and we just thought that was rather strange that there would be a $50 bill in a ten-year-old child's wallet.
Mr. Zonen: What did you do with the wallet?
Ann Lopez: I told George, “Well, I'm going to call and just send it back to them”.
Mr. Zonen: And did you do that?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. How did you send it back?
Ann Lopez: I think Federal Express. Just sent it back so that they would get it the very next day, because I figured he needed the money.
Mr. Zonen: And the $50 bill was, of course, still in the wallet at the time you sent it back?
Ann Lopez: Yes. Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: On that visit to the Sherman Oaks mall, was there anybody else there from the Arvizo family besides Gavin and David?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever have occasion to meet Gavin's brother or sister?
Ann Lopez: Oh, yes, at the hospital.
Mr. Zonen: So they were there visiting on a few different occasions?
Ann Lopez: Uh-huh. They were almost always there.
Mr. Zonen: When you went to the shopping mall, did you tell Gavin, prior to going over there, that you would buy him something?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did --
Ann Lopez: It was really a last-minute thing. We had actually thought of going to the movies, and there wasn't a movie playing, so we just decided to walk around the mall.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Ann Lopez: We knew we would buy him something, you know, a toy or something.
Mr. Zonen: Now, did you ever get a phone call back from David Arvizo with regards to the wallet at any time?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Was there ever a subsequent conversation from David, whether it was a phone call or in person, where the subject of that conversation was the wallet?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, did you hear from anybody with regards to an issue of money missing from the wallet?
Ann Lopez: The way we found out about that was about a month after we stopped having any contact with David, I called Jamie Masada for a completely different reason. I just needed a business number. And, you know, we were talking. He gave me the number I needed, and he said, “Listen, by the way, I want you to know that” -- “remember that wallet?” And I said, “Yes”. And he said, “Well”, you know, “David said that the wallet was empty when it was returned”. And I said, “Jamie, it had $50 in it”. And he's like, “Well, he says there was $300 in it, and that it was empty when it was returned”. And I was just like, “Jamie, do you really think we would steal $300 from this child that we've been trying to help?” And he said, “No, I know you didn't do it. But I gave him the $300 just to get him off my back”. And I offered to reimburse Jamie $300. And he said, “No, absolutely not. Don't worry about it”. I was like, “Are you sure?” And he was like, “Yeah, just don't worry about it”.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any additional conversations with David Arvizo after your conversation with Jamie?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: In other words, at the point where you learned that Jamie had been -- had given $300 --
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: -- to Mr. Arvizo, no further conversations?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Were you ever working on a fund-raiser on behalf of Gavin?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us when that was, in terms of -- give us a sense of around the time that you did your shopping spree at the Sherman Oaks mall. Was it during that time? Before that?
Ann Lopez: It was right after that, around there. David was getting more frequent with his hints about needing money. And I said to George, you know, “Let's just go ahead and do our own fund-raiser for him at The Ice House”, which is another comedy club in Pasadena, “and that way we'll just get him off our back”.
Mr. Zonen: Have you done fund-raisers before?
Ann Lopez: Oh, yes. Many.
Mr. Zonen: That's not unusual for a celebrity like your husband to end up being invited to do a fund-raiser?
Ann Lopez: Oh, no. We get asked to do many more than we possibly can do.
Mr. Zonen: And you have done many --
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- over the years?
Ann Lopez: Many. Many.
Mr. Zonen: What's involved in putting on a fund-raiser like this?
Ann Lopez: We usually contact one of the comedy clubs and one of the owners, who -- they're all our friends. And you usually do a fund-raiser on a Monday night, which is a slow night for the club. And the door -- the ticket price, which you can set any ticket price you want, will go to your fund-raiser. And then the drinks and food will go to the comedy club. So it's kind of a win-win for both parties.
Mr. Zonen: Were you working with David Arvizo in putting this together?
Ann Lopez: No, I was doing it myself.
Mr. Zonen: Were you having conversations with David Arvizo about what was happening in pursuit of this fund-raiser?
Ann Lopez: Oh, yes. He was really hounding me, calling me and asking me a lot of questions.
Mr. Zonen: And tell us, give us a sense of it. I mean, how often was he calling, and what was he asking?
Ann Lopez: He was calling me like every other day and asking me how much money could be raised. And it was just -- you know, he wanted to know how much money, how much money can be raised. And I told him I thought we could raise probably between seven and $14,000, which was actually quite a bit for a Monday night fund-raiser. But my husband had gotten permission to announce it on the radio station that he was working at at the time.
Mr. Zonen: Was his behavior, David Arvizo's behavior, different than what you would expect of people for whom you were doing fund-raisers?
Ann Lopez: He made me very suspicious, because I had never done a fund-raiser where someone had asked me how much money was involved. I mean, usually people are just so grateful that you're helping them. And so this was very strange, and I got very suspicious.
Mr. Zonen: Did you finally decide to have a conversation with him that dealt specifically with where the money was going to go?
Ann Lopez: Well, what I did, was I decided to test him, and I told George what I was going to do. I said, “You know, this is” -- I just started feeling very uneasy. And I said, “You know, there's something strange here. I want to test him to make sure that his intentions are honorable”. And so what I did was, I called him up on the phone and I said, “Well, David, I just wanted to let you know, the fund-raiser is going to be at such and such a time, such and such a date, and I need to start getting your bills. You know, I need to get the name of your landlord, I need to get your credit card bills, your gas bills, so we can start paying them”. And he became, you know, a little like, “What do you mean? Aren't I just going to get the cash?” And I said, “No, we can, like, pre-pay your rent for six months. We can pay your bills”. I said, “No, that's not how it works”. And he said, “Well, some people that I owe money to, I just owe them money”. And I said, “Give me their names so we can pay them”. And he got very agitated. And I said, “Well, listen, this is” -- you know, “The radio station is involved, and that's the way it has to be handled, because they need to have documentation”. And then he got very angry at me.
Mr. Zonen: All right. You say he got angry at you. How did he manifest that anger? What did he do? What did he say?
Ann Lopez: He cursed at me.
Mr. Zonen: What did he say? I know this is a little embarrassing, but what did he say?
Ann Lopez: He called me a fucking bitch and a mother-fucking whore, and that's when I hung up the phone.
Mr. Zonen: Was he angry while he was saying this?
Ann Lopez: Oh, he was irate. His whole demeanor changed.
Mr. Zonen: And loud?
Ann Lopez: Oh, yeah, it was -- he frightened me. I was shaking when I hung up the phone.
Mr. Zonen: Did he ever present like that to you before, prior to that date?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Either in person or on the telephone?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: And you were frightened by that?
Ann Lopez: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: What did you do after that telephone call?
Ann Lopez: I immediately picked up the phone and called my husband at the radio station.
Mr. Zonen: And you discussed with him what had happened; is that correct?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was the decision made not to engage in any more conduct with Mr. Arvizo?
Ann Lopez: Yes. George was very angry. And really our suspicions are true, were true. I mean, they came to light that he was just wanting money maybe for some other reason, and it wasn't going to go to the bills. So we decided that the fund-raiser was off, we weren't going to do it, and that was it.
Mr. Zonen: How many conversations do you think -- telephone conversations do you think you had with Janet Arvizo?
Ann Lopez: Probably four at the most. Four or five.
Mr. Zonen: During any of those conversations that you had with her, did she ever ask you for assistance?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did she ever ask you for money?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did she ever behave in any way inappropriate, in your mind?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. I have no further questions.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good afternoon, Miss Lopez.
Ann Lopez: Good afternoon.
Mr. Mesereau: My name is Tom Mesereau and I speak for Michael Jackson. You thought it very odd that Janet was never at the hospital while her son was apparently dying, right?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you noted to your husband how strange that was, right?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you didn't quite believe that she was never there because she was waiting tables, true?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know at the time she was litigating a sexual assault case with J.C. Penney?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as assuming facts not in evidence and argumentative.
The Court: Sustained as to assuming facts not in evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever know anything about any litigation Janet Arvizo was involved in with anybody?
Ann Lopez: No. No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did David or Janet ever talk to you about their litigation with any company or individual?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you learned that Janet brought her children to the comedy camp from East Los Angeles, correct?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever visit their home?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever talk to your husband about where he thought their home was located?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. You did learn at some point that he visited them in El Monte, correct?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you never were there?
Ann Lopez: No. He went to pick them up.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Ann Lopez: Well, Gavin and David.
Mr. Mesereau: When you spoke to Janet on the phone, did you ever know where she was calling you from?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever mention where she was?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you talked to Janet, did you ever ask her why “You're not visiting your dying son”?
Ann Lopez: Well, the first conversation I had with Janet was at our home, and it was just comforting, and I hadn't been to the hospital yet. But every other conversation David was there, so, no, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did Janet ever visit your home?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, to your knowledge, did the three Arvizo children visit your home with David?
Ann Lopez: No. Just one. Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: Just Gavin? And how many times did he visit your home, if you remember?
Ann Lopez: Just once.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And that's the time where suddenly this wallet appeared on a mantle?
Ann Lopez: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And about how high was the mantle, if you remember?
Ann Lopez: Probably -- let's see, it wasn't as tall as I was. Probably five feet.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you remember seeing the wallet there?
Ann Lopez: I don't, because I went directly into the kitchen.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you don't recall ever meeting Janet in person, correct?
Ann Lopez: I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you visit the hospital at different times or did you typically visit at the same time of day?
Ann Lopez: No, different times, just depending on my husband's schedule.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you thought you visited about six times, right?
Ann Lopez: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: You thought your husband visited about 12 times, right?
Ann Lopez: I'm not sure how many times he visited. Sometimes he would go after his shift, without me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And you're not sure if you've ever met Janet in person, right?
Ann Lopez: I don't recall ever meeting her.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever at The Laugh Factory when she was there with her children?
Ann Lopez: No, I never went to the comedy camp.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you did know that your husband was teaching the children, right?
Ann Lopez: Yes, I did. He spoke about them.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he talk to you about what they did on stage?
Ann Lopez: Oh, yes. He thought they were very talented, especially Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he talk to you about Gavin's skit where he would talk about how impoverished they were on stage?
Ann Lopez: He didn't go into specifics, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding the mother would always be there watching the kids talk about their paverty on the stage?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Objection, speculation. She wasn't there.
The Court: Overruled. The answer was, “Yes”.
Mr. Mesereau: You indicated that when David told you that Janet was working as a waitress and couldn't be at the hospital, that red flags went up, correct?
Ann Lopez: Well, more that she was -- not because she was working as a waitress. I think the red flags went up that she was emotional, and the hospital would make her overcome and she couldn't handle it. That, I thought, was a little strange.
Mr. Mesereau: Thought it was a little odd.
Ann Lopez: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: You thought that even with the emotional difficulty, a mother would likely be at the hospital with her dying son?
Ann Lopez: Absolutely.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never saw her there one time?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you described David as business-like, correct?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell the sheriffs he had a certain robotic and business-like demeanor about him?
Ann Lopez: I don't believe I said “business-like”. Robotic, maybe. He was very unemotional.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you didn't think his behavior was consistent with a father whose son was seriously ill, right?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But you always saw him there every time you went to the hospital, right?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. So basically at that point, you thought both parents' behavior seemed like something was off, true?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But David -- excuse me. Let me rephrase that. How many times did you talk to David on the phone, do you think?
Ann Lopez: I'm not sure how many. He called me quite a bit when the fund-raiser -- but I really would see him more at the hospital, or the time that he came to our home.
Mr. Mesereau: And David told you that Jamie Masada was helping him out financially, correct?
Ann Lopez: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: And immediately when you met him, he began to sort of hint that he needed money, right?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You noticed that pretty quickly, didn't you?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: It went from sort of hints to direct requests at some point, right?
Ann Lopez: You know, I think he -- he always skirted the issue with me, because I think he knew that I wasn't really biting.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You weren't -- you weren't what?
Ann Lopez: Biting --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Ann Lopez: -- at his hints.
Mr. Mesereau: When you didn't bite, did he seem to persist?
Ann Lopez: He would, but I wasn't biting.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was it your impression he began to work more on your husband than you at some point to get funds?
Ann Lopez: Probably, yes. I mean, there were many times I wasn't there, so I can't say.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you told him at one point he needed to go back to work and take care of his family, correct?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he ever respond to that, that you remember?
Ann Lopez: He didn't say anything, but his body language, he got very, like, agitated, like, oh, he didn't like that I said that.
Mr. Mesereau: At this time you're suspicious as to whether his wife is really working, correct?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know?
Ann Lopez: I didn't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if she was working?
Ann Lopez: I didn't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't know one way or the other, right?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You thought David was using Gavin and his other children as a tool to seek money, right?
Ann Lopez: I thought -- yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you always seemed to anticipate that another hint at money was forthcoming when you were with him, right?
Ann Lopez: Well, he always did it, so I kind of started to expect it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you told the sheriffs that during your phone conversations with Janet, she always seemed to be very grateful, right?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Very grateful for what you and your husband had done for the family, true?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk to her periodically?
Ann Lopez: I'm sorry. Now?
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk to Janet periodically -- no, no, at the time -- at the time you were interacting with the Arvizos.
Ann Lopez: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me narrow that better.
Ann Lopez: Sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: At the time you were either visiting Gavin in the hospital or they were visiting your house, you would talk to Janet once in a while, correct?
Ann Lopez: At the hospital. Only if she called the hospital.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Ann Lopez: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, while you were visiting the hospital, did you know your husband was giving David money from time to time?
Ann Lopez: Yes, just, you know, out of his pocket.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Ann Lopez: You know, 20, 40, $60, something like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Right. And Janet would call you from time to time and express her gratitude for all you did for the family, right?
Ann Lopez: Only -- I would only speak to her at the hospital, if she happened to call at the hospital. She never called me at home, except the first time to tell us that Gavin was ill.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Were you in the mall when Gavin kept asking your husband to buy gifts for him?
Ann Lopez: Oh, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You were there too, right?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many shops do you think you went into?
Ann Lopez: Four or five.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And as far as you recall, did Gavin ask your husband to buy him gifts in every shop?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what kind of shops did you go into?
Ann Lopez: Into, like, the Discovery Store. There was a toy store there at that time. There were, actually, I think, two toy stores at that time that have since closed. And I think we went into another, like, shoe store or something like that.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you find it odd that Gavin would keep asking you to buy gifts for him and the husband would stand -- excuse me, the father would stand there silent?
Ann Lopez: I didn't find it odd that Gavin would ask for things. My daughter does the same thing. She asks for toys in every store she goes to.
Mr. Mesereau: What about the father?
Ann Lopez: The father walking away and/or not putting some kind of cap on it I thought was kind of strange.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Gavin typically ask your husband or you to buy him gifts?
Ann Lopez: Whichever one was nearest.
Mr. Mesereau: He didn't seem to ask his father to buy him gifts?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did it appear to you he was almost prepped to do this, to go up to you and George to ask you to buy his gifts for him as opposed to going up to his father?
Ann Lopez: I don't have any opinion on that. To me, kids do that, so that behavior didn't seem strange to me. It was just David always walking away, out of the store, like, “Okay, go ahead and buy him the gifts”.
Mr. Mesereau: What about the son never asking the father to buy him anything, did you find that strange?
Ann Lopez: No, because we didn't think they had any money, so --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You didn't know, though, did you?
Ann Lopez: Know what?
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't really know how much money they had, did you?
Ann Lopez: I didn't know anything about them, other than what my husband told me.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know whether or not someone named Louise Palanker had given them 20,000 bucks?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Knew nothing about that?
Ann Lopez: I had never met her. Didn't know her.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know anything about Louise giving Janet a check for $10,000?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object; assuming facts not in evidence, and irrelevant.
The Court: Sustained; foundation.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know comedian Chris Tucker?
Ann Lopez: I know who he is. I've never met him.
Mr. Mesereau: So you never talked to him about the Arvizos and his experiences?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, at some point, you learned that the Arvizo family were visiting Neverland, correct?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you learn the Arvizo family were visiting Neverland?
Ann Lopez: One day when we went to visit Gavin at the hospital, he had already been to Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did he seem excited about Neverland?
Ann Lopez: Oh, over the top.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did his father talk to you about Neverland?
Ann Lopez: That's all they talked about.
Mr. Mesereau: Did his father talk to you about the fact Michael Jackson had given a truck to the family?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did Gavin talk about the fact that Michael Jackson had given a truck to the family?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear him discuss that Michael Jackson had given a computer to the family?
Ann Lopez: I don't remember the computer, but I do remember the car.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they talk about other gifts that Michael Jackson had given the family, to your knowledge?
Ann Lopez: They just talked about the whole experience. They were very -- you know, the movie theater, and the candy, and golf carts, and things like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you notice David's attitude towards you change after he started visiting Michael Jackson?
Ann Lopez: Oh, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was the change all about?
Ann Lopez: Well, all of a sudden, we -- our friendship to Gavin was not as important as them being at Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Ann Lopez: It just seemed like a shift; that George's time and compassion for Gavin wasn't as important anymore.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And that bothered you?
Ann Lopez: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever discuss that with David or Janet?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did you learn at some point after you had severed your relationship with the Arvizos that Janet had met with your husband to give him a good luck charm in gratitude for all you had done?
Ann Lopez: I knew about that before. It was a little key chain.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know about when that happened?
Ann Lopez: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Ever talk to Janet about her experiences at Neverland?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you noticed a change in attitude in Gavin and David, right?
Ann Lopez: Yes, and the two other children.
Mr. Mesereau: All of them?
Ann Lopez: All of them, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: They just didn't seem to be as interested in you and George anymore, right?
Ann Lopez: Well, it was just such a fantastic, over-the-top kind of experience.
Mr. Mesereau: And they kept talking about how much Michael had given them, correct?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you get the feeling they were sort of suggesting that maybe you didn't give them enough?
Ann Lopez: Maybe, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did they talk about gifts that Michael Jackson had sent to the hospital for Gavin?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as to vague as to “they”.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me, I'll rephrase it.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Gavin ever talk to you about gifts Michael Jackson had sent to him at the hospital?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did David ever talk about that?
Ann Lopez: I think there was a basket, but I don't remember what was in the basket. They pointed to a basket -- well, David pointed to a basket, but I can't remember what was in it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And Gavin kept talking to you about driving golf carts at Neverland, correct?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: They seemed to -- he seemed to be very excited by that?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did David tell you they were going to keep visiting Neverland?
Ann Lopez: I don't think so. I don't think that came up in the conversation.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he tell you about numerous visits they had made to Neverland?
Ann Lopez: The one that sticks out in my mind is the first one.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, did you talk to David on the phone about Neverland, or in person?
Ann Lopez: In person at the hospital.
Mr. Mesereau: At the hospital, okay. Okay. And it was your understanding that Gavin was going back and forth to the hospital for treatment?
Ann Lopez: Oh, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that while he was in the middle of his treatments, he and the family went to Neverland? Is that your understanding?
Ann Lopez: I believe it was one of the weeks that he was feeling better and he was in remission.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay.
Ann Lopez: Because he was having chemotherapy. And there were times when he felt better, and right after the treatments, he would feel very bad.
Mr. Mesereau: You recall your husband going to El Monte and picking up David and his children, true?
Ann Lopez: No, just David and Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when do you recall your husband going to El Monte and picking up David and Gavin?
Ann Lopez: That was when they came to our house, but I'm not sure exactly when, the month or --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You described to the sheriffs that it was a hot day, right?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you remember that?
Ann Lopez: Because David was -- I mean -- “David”. I'm sorry, Gavin was still ill, and I remember being concerned that he shouldn't be outside in his condition when it was hot.
Mr. Mesereau: And about what time of day did you first see David and Gavin on that occasion?
Ann Lopez: I think they came to our house around noon.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Ann Lopez: I think.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did you know your husband George was buying gifts for Gavin and bringing them to the hospital?
Ann Lopez: I bought them also, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did David express gratitude to you for doing that?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Gavin?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Janet?
Ann Lopez: She wasn't there, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you talked to her on the phone, though, she expressed gratitude for all you'd done for her family, right?
Ann Lopez: But not really -- more spiritually than -- being there with Gavin than financially, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you were trying to arrange a benefit in Pasadena, correct?
Ann Lopez: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was a club that George had appeared at, correct?
Ann Lopez: Yeah, he kind of considers that his home club. That's where he started, and it's one of his favorite clubs.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told David -- correct me if I'm wrong, you told David that you thought you could raise between seven and $14,000, right?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was his reaction to that?
Ann Lopez: He was very happy.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You don't know what David was doing with the money he was given by George, do you?
Ann Lopez: No, but it was never a lot of money. It was always, you know, money to buy lunch or to -- gas money. It wasn't anything -- it was always less than $100. It wasn't something --
Mr. Mesereau: Right. But you don't know what he was doing with that?
Ann Lopez: No, we did not.
Mr. Mesereau: You had suspicions, didn't you?
Ann Lopez: No, I -- not about that.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't you have suspicions about the fact that he wasn't working, Janet may not be working?
Ann Lopez: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't know where the money was going, right?
Ann Lopez: I was concerned that the family was working on a waitress's -- I mean, living on a waitress's wages, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But you never asked her what restaurant she was working at, right?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: She never told you where she was waiting tables, correct?
Ann Lopez: No. Our conversations were always more, “Thank you for being with Gavin”, things like that.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you ask David to provide you with a list of his creditors?
Ann Lopez: In -- I think it was in April, near when the fund-raiser was going to be.
Mr. Mesereau: And your desire was to control where the money went, correct?
Ann Lopez: Well, I wanted to test him, really. It wasn't to control. I wanted to make sure -- if we were going to actually do this and put ourselves out, then I wanted to make sure that the money was going somewhere, and I didn't trust that it was.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you believe that Gavin didn't have medical insurance at the time?
Ann Lopez: No, he told me that he did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did he tell you at some point it was going to lapse?
Ann Lopez: If he didn't go back to work.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So what did you think the money was going to be raised for?
Ann Lopez: To pay their rent, to pay their bills, their electric bill. Things of that nature.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you learn that they were raising money from any other people at the same time?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as to “they”; vague.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether or not Janet was trying to raise money from any other comedian at the same time?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether or not Janet was asking Chris Tucker for any support at that time?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know whether Janet was asking Chris Tucker's fiancee for a car at that time?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know whether any efforts were made to get money from Michael Jackson at the time?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Did you know Fritz Coleman at the time?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know whether or not Fritz Coleman had ever visited the Arvizo home?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you -- did you have any knowledge of Fritz Coleman being involved with a fund-raiser for the Arvizos?
Ann Lopez: I do now. At the time, I had kind of forgotten about that fund-raiser, because when I think of a fund-raiser, I think about the one that I was planning that never came -- you know, came to be. But I've heard since then that there was a fund-raiser that Fritz did.
Mr. Mesereau: And in your discussions with Janet, did she ever tell you that she had come across a large sum of money in a civil settlement?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: She never mentioned 150,000 to you?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You told David you wanted to raise money and actually pay their rent directly; is that correct?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you discuss where -- excuse me. Did you discuss what you would pay the rent for, what residence?
Ann Lopez: I assumed it was the studio apartment. That's the only residence that -- I knew the grandmother had a home, but I meant their residence.
Mr. Mesereau: And you hadn't been there, correct?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, your husband had not been there either, right?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: He'd been to El Monte?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And David said something to you like, “I want cash”; is that correct?
Ann Lopez: Well, yes, when I asked -- when I told him that I needed his bills, he said, “Well, I thought I was just going to get the cash”. And I said, “Oh, no, that's not how it works”.
Mr. Mesereau: He didn't like that, did he?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: Counsel, let's take our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Go ahead, Counsel.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor. Just a couple more questions.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point did you learn that the Arvizos had divorced?
Ann Lopez: No, not until recently.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And was it your understanding that Janet had applied for welfare?
Ann Lopez: I didn't know that.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ever learn that she applied for disability?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never knew she'd obtained a big settlement of any kind?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as asked and answered, irrelevant.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When did you last see the Arvizos?
Ann Lopez: Let's see, probably in the hospital. I don't really recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did the visit to your home happen after Gavin was in the hospital or in the middle?
Ann Lopez: Kind of in the middle. His treatment was like a year long.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you remember the last time you talked to Janet?
Ann Lopez: In the hospital.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Not at your home?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, obviously you learned about your husband's strong disagreement with David, correct?
Ann Lopez: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: You knew that David was calling the radio station, correct?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And at some point you basically severed all ties with the Arvizo family, correct?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ever see them after that?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever talk to them after that?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, did you ever discuss any fund-raising plans with anyone else at The Laugh Factory?
Ann Lopez: No. We were going to do the fund-raiser at The Ice House.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever get involved in any efforts with The Laugh Factory to have a fund-raiser?
Ann Lopez: I still don't remember that fund-raiser.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever talk to Fritz Coleman about a fund-raiser for Gavin?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you were planning the one in Pasadena, correct?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you planning it mostly with David?
Ann Lopez: No, myself.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you talking to the children at all about that?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: About whatever role they would play in it?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you get to the point where you were actually doing invitations?
Ann Lopez: No. We were going to announce it on the radio. The way it works is, usually you -- the way we were going to do this one was George was going to announce it on the radio station, and then -- the price and the time, and then The Laugh -- I'm sorry, The Ice House was going to take the reservations.
Mr. Mesereau: How -- did you ever know at any time whether or not Fritz Coleman had made announcements about another fund-raiser for the Arvizos?
Ann Lopez: Yes, I think there was a fund-raiser, but we weren't involved in that one.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't communicate with anybody about that?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: So yours was separate and apart from anything that The Laugh Factory was having?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. No further questions.
The Court: Redirect?
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Ms. Lopez, you said that you thought that Janet's gratitude was spiritual. What did you mean by that?
Ann Lopez: Well, she just said -- she said she was praying for us and thanking us for being with Gavin, and for giving him comfort and giving him hope and making him stronger spiritually by being at his bedside.
Mr. Zonen: Did she ever say anything to you about money that had been given to David by your husband?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did she ever say anything at all about any of the gifts to the family at all?
Ann Lopez: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did she ever talk to you about that gift that she gave to your husband, the key chain?
Ann Lopez: I thanked her for it, because it meant a lot to George.
Mr. Zonen: Could you describe the gift for us?
Ann Lopez: It's a -- it's a small key chain. It has a mustard seed in it, and she said that she had had it for -- it was obviously used, and that she'd had it for a long time and she just wanted him to have it.
Mr. Zonen: And he accepted it?
Ann Lopez: Yes, he did.
Mr. Zonen: And was grateful for it?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: You made the statement that you thought the kids were a tool for David, or something like that?
Ann Lopez: I'm sorry?
Mr. Zonen: Were a tool of David?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Tell me what you meant.
Ann Lopez: Well, it just seemed he didn't have a connection with his children. And to me, it seemed like he was using Gavin's illness for gain, financial gain.
Mr. Zonen: Did you notice any change in David's behavior as the months went by while Gavin was in the hospital receiving treatment?
Ann Lopez: Well, he just kept asking for money. I mean, it was just kind of his M.O.
Mr. Zonen: It was consistent?
Ann Lopez: Consistent.
Mr. Zonen: Every time you were there?
Ann Lopez: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I have no further questions.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down.
Mr. Nicola: Your Honor, we'll be re-calling Sergeant Bob Spinner.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Nicola: And I would ask permission to reopen my direct. I think my near fatal accident on Friday jarred my thinking process. I was traumatized.
The Court: You may be seated. You're still under oath.
Message: ROBERT SPINNER Having been previously sworn, resumed the stand and testified further as follows:
The Court: Did you discuss that with counsel, so they know what -- why you've asked me to do that?
Mr. Sanger: I don't know why. I was just informed he wanted to do it.
Mr. Nicola: I did tell Mr. Sanger this morning at the same time that we talked about calling Mr. Lopez out of order, perhaps.
The Court: Would you tell him so he knows? I don't want -- I just want you to know in case you're --
Mr. Sanger: I don't know. Could we have a moment so I can find out?
The Court: Yes. Please do. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Sanger: If the question -- if the question is -- if the question is, do I now know I have the general subject matter, and I have no ability to form an opinion as to whether or not it's appropriate to reopen based on what I was just told.
The Court: All right. Go ahead.
Mr. Nicola: Thank you, Your Honor.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION Reopened BY MR. NICOLA:
Mr. Nicola: Detective Spinner, on Friday, you mentioned a series of 19 fingerprints that you made positive identifications on. I'd like to talk to you specifically about the items that are marked in the 317 series of sheriff's evidence that you testified you had made identifications on. When you examined those items in the 317 series, did all the items that you identified fingerprints on arrive at the same time?
Robert Spinner: No, they did not.
Mr. Nicola: Would you explain that for the jury, please?
Robert Spinner: When I was first assigned the job, I went to the property room to obtain Items 306 and 317, which were the two initial item numbers. I was told, when I got Item 306, that 317 was not available, and it would be available at a later date. I was advised on August the 3rd that the 317 that had been -- or part of 317, which had been at the DOJ for laboratory for analysis, was back, and I went out and got it. I was later advised that there were a number -- the remainder of 317 was brought to the forensics lab. When I came back to work on October the 5th, it was locked in the cabinet in the forensics lab and the remainder was in the black briefcase.
Mr. Nicola: So you got one portion of it in August?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Nicola: May I approach the witness, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: Marked as 622.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, I am going to object that this is not proper to reopen. It's basically material that's covered, and it's elaboration on something that he brought up in redirect.
Mr. Nicola: May we approach, Your Honor, so we do not --
The Court: No. I've already given you permission to reopen. Proceed.
Mr. Nicola: Thank you.
Mr. Nicola: I've placed in front of you Exhibit 622. Is that 622?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir, it is.
Mr. Nicola: Okay.
Mr. Nicola: May I use your copy, please?
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Mr. Nicola: I'm just going to hold it up. It appears to be nothing more than a couple of timelines, correct?
Mr. Sanger: I suppose that's not appropriate to publish it until it's an exhibit.
Mr. Nicola: There's really nothing on this.
Mr. Sanger: There is something on it.
The Court: Counsel, you're required --
Mr. Nicola: It is just a couple of timelines.
The Court: Counsel, you're required to mark the exhibit, show it to opposing counsel, and then show it to the witness without publishing.
Mr. Nicola: I understand. I apologize, Judge.
Mr. Nicola: What is on 622?
Robert Spinner: It appears to be two timelines for the year 2004, and one for a brown evidence bag, 529, and for a black briefcase, 470.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Do you recognize Exhibit 470?
Robert Spinner: Yes, I do.
Mr. Nicola: And do you recognize Exhibit 529?
Robert Spinner: Yes, I do.
Mr. Nicola: Beginning with Exhibit 529, can you please open the package up, and how do you recognize that exhibit?
Robert Spinner: This is the evidence bag which I received the first grouping of items which were booked into evidence under Sheriff's Evidence Item No. 3-1-7, or 317.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. On Exhibit 622, can you please note on the timeline?
Robert Spinner: Do you want me to write that down?
Mr. Nicola: Please write the date that you first opened that bag on the timeline, and on which date --
The Court: Has that timeline been marked as an exhibit?
Mr. Nicola: It's Exhibit 622, Your Honor.
The Court: Is that Exhibit 622?
Mr. Nicola: Yes.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Nicola: Tell the jury what you just wrote.
Robert Spinner: 8-3 of '04.
Mr. Nicola: And that's Exhibit No. 529?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Can you tell the jury, please, which items from Exhibit 529 were items that you were later able to make positive identifications of fingerprints in?
Robert Spinner: It would have been 317, L, Lincoln; 317-R, Robert; 317-S, Sam; and 317-YY, or yellow-yellow.
Mr. Nicola: Do you have a list of the names of those publications?
Robert Spinner: Yes, I do.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Can we start again, please, with the 317-L with a name?
Robert Spinner: 317-L is December 2000 issue of a magazine entitled “Finally Legal”.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. And whose fingerprints were in that magazine?
Robert Spinner: Star Arvizo.
Mr. Nicola: Was there another magazine that was in 529 that you made positive identifications of fingerprints out of?
Robert Spinner: Excuse me for one minute. 317-R, Robert.
Mr. Nicola: And the name of that magazine, please?
Robert Spinner: Is Hustler's “Barely Legal Hardcore”.
Mr. Nicola: Could you tell the jury which fingerprints you were able to positively identify in that item, please?
Robert Spinner: Three fingerprints from Gavin Arvizo, and one fingerprint from Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Nicola: Just for the record, is 317-L - you're too fast - Exhibit 513?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir, it is.
Mr. Nicola: And for the record, is 317-R Exhibit 518?
Robert Spinner: Yes, it is.
Mr. Nicola: You mentioned a couple of other publications?
Robert Spinner: 317-S, Sam, which was an unknown date issue of Penthouse magazine with the cover removed.
Mr. Nicola: For the record, is that Exhibit 519?
Robert Spinner: Yes, it is.
Mr. Nicola: Was there another publication that you recovered positive fingerprints from which were contained in Exhibit 529?
Robert Spinner: 317-YY, yellow-yellow.
Mr. Nicola: And that was?
Robert Spinner: The name of that was “Al Goldstein's 100 Best Adult Videos”.
Mr. Nicola: And whose fingerprints did you recover in that?
Robert Spinner: Gavin Arvizo.
Mr. Nicola: And does that appear to be Exhibit No. 504?
Robert Spinner: Yes, it does.
Mr. Nicola: I'll let you package that up before I ask some more questions, okay? Don't put that away yet. Are each of the publications that you have just described for the jury marked on the front of Exhibit No. 529?
Robert Spinner: Yes, they are.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Are there additional items denoted by 317 followed by a letter of the alphabet written on Exhibit 529? You don't have to read the list.
Robert Spinner: Yes, there are.
Mr. Nicola: And at the time that you received Exhibit 529, did you conduct an inventory of what was inside the bag compared to what was written on the exterior of the bag?
Robert Spinner: Yes, I did.
Mr. Nicola: Did you find any item missing?
Robert Spinner: No.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Did you find any item inside the bag that was not accounted for on the outside of the bag by item number?
Robert Spinner: No, I did not.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Could you tell the jury, please, what date you began processing Exhibit No. 317-L? And “processing”, I mean the procedure that you described for us on Friday.
Robert Spinner: Okay. I started -- I obtained the items on 8-3 and we started the processing on 8-11.
Mr. Nicola: Could you mark that, please, on your Exhibit 622? Is it legible?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Nicola: Are you using a pen now?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. With respect to Exhibit 317-R, Item 317-R, the Exhibit No. 518, could you tell the jury, please, when you began processing that item?
Robert Spinner: The same day, 8-11, August 11th.
Mr. Nicola: Would you please put that on the timeline as well? Does the same hold true for Items 317-S, Exhibit 519, and 317-YY, Exhibit 504?
Robert Spinner: No, 317, Sam, and 317-YY were started on 8-12.
Mr. Nicola: On August 12th --
Robert Spinner: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: -- of 2004? Could you put those two items on the timeline as well with the date that you began processing them, please? Just remember we'll have to read that later.
Robert Spinner: You've seen my writing.
Mr. Nicola: You mentioned that you did not have Exhibit 470, the black briefcase, at the time that you had Exhibit 529?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Nicola: When were you able to take custody of the black briefcase, Exhibit 470, and check through the contents?
Robert Spinner: On 10-5 of '04.
Mr. Nicola: On October 5th of 2004?
Robert Spinner: Correct.
Mr. Nicola: Do you know where the briefcase had been prior to that time?
Robert Spinner: I was told it had been --
Mr. Sanger: Calls for hearsay, objection.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Nicola: Do you want to look at the briefcase now or do you need to?
Robert Spinner: No, I don't need to. It's got seals on it.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Did you find fingerprints for which you made a positive identification on any publications that you removed from Exhibit 470, the black briefcase?
Robert Spinner: Yes. On three.
Mr. Nicola: Could you please tell the jury on which magazines those were, publications, I mean?
Robert Spinner: 317-ocean, O, which was -- it was a “Barely Legal” magazine. 317-T, Tom, which was a “Visions of Fantasy, A Hard-Rock Affair” magazine. And 317-union, which was a “Visions of Fantasy, Jose's Black Starlett” magazine.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Beginning with Exhibit 515, Item 317-O, whose prints did you find in that again?
Robert Spinner: It was Mr. Jackson's.
Mr. Nicola: And Item 317-T, Exhibit 520?
Robert Spinner: Mr. Jackson's.
Mr. Nicola: And Item 317-U, which is Exhibit 521?
Robert Spinner: Would have been Gavin Arvizo.
Mr. Nicola: And on which page of that publication was that print located?
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, this is cumulative. It's been asked and answered.
Robert Spinner: Page --
The Court: Yeah, what is it that you didn't do last week that you're doing now?
Mr. Nicola: Just this last part of the timeline, Judge. Didn't ask him any questions about dates of processing, or when he received the material.
The Court: Well, let's limit it to the dates, then, and not go through the rep -- whose prints are on what. You covered all that last week.
Mr. Nicola: With respect to those three items, what date did you process them, if they were all on the same day?
Robert Spinner: On 317-O, I started processing on October the 5th, and it was completed on October the 12th.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Could you please put that on the timeline? How about Exhibit 520, 317-T?
Robert Spinner: On 317-T, again obtained on October 5, and completed on October 12.
Mr. Nicola: Can you please write that on the timeline as well, Exhibit 622? And how about Exhibit 521, Exhibit 317 -- Item 317-U?
Robert Spinner: 317-U, again initially obtained on 10 -- or October the 5th, and it was completed on October the 12th.
Mr. Nicola: And could you write that on the timeline as well? At this time, Your Honor, I'd move 622 into evidence and request permission to publish.
Mr. Sanger: Before the Court rules, could I take a look at it, please?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: May I approach to do that?
The Court: Yes, you may.
Mr. Nicola: Would you mind bringing it back, if you're amenable?
Mr. Sanger: Counsel's asked me to bring it back, so if that's all right, I'll do that.
Mr. Nicola: Save me a trip. (Laughter.)
Mr. Zonen: A trip.
The Bailiff: It's on.
Mr. Nicola: It's on?
The Bailiff: It should have been, unless somebody turned it off.
The Court: What input do you need?
Mr. Nicola: I believe that is “Input 4”, Your Honor. The Elmo.
Mr. Nicola: Does -- Exhibit 622, does that exhibit accurately reflect the items of evidence you were able to find identifiable fingerprints from and the dates that you processed them?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Nicola: And it also accounts for the items of evidence from which those publications came from?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Nicola: Did you process any of -- any magazine or periodicals that came to you for fingerprint comparison in the month of September that you recall?
Robert Spinner: I was gone for the -- for at least three weeks in September on a trip, and I don't believe I did much processing of anything in September. I might have done something at the tail end of September, but I can't recall.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Generally what was the success ratio in checking for fingerprints in these magazines, periodicals?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. First of all, the question is vague as to which set of magazines. But secondly, that's cumulative. The overall question has been asked and answered with specific numbers.
Mr. Nicola: I'm not sure that has, Your Honor.
The Court: I don't know what you mean by “success ratio”. I think we covered that last week.
Mr. Nicola: Okay.
The Court: But I don't know what you mean by that, so I'll sustain a foundation objection.
Mr. Nicola: Regarding your ability to locate latent prints on the kinds of materials that are in front of you, the 317 series, if -- if you can explain in a percentage, only if you can, please describe for the Court what kind of percentage ratio you can successfully find latent prints on these kinds of items, if you know?
Mr. Sanger: Objection, foundation. And it's unintelligible.
The Court: Sustained on foundation.
Mr. Nicola: Why don't we move on. Were you concerned about contamination of the fingerprints in this case?
Mr. Sanger: Objection, Your Honor. This is beyond the offer to reopen.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Nicola: I have no further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: 622's admitted.
Mr. Nicola: Thank you, Your Honor. Do you need those exhibits or....
Mr. Sanger: Just leave them. That's fine. May I proceed, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Sergeant Spinner, how are you?
Robert Spinner: I'm fine, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Good. And you're retired?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir, I think so.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Not for a little while anyway. First of all, when you talk about -- when you answer the district attorney's questions as to whose fingerprints are on something, that's your opinion; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And fingerprint identification is subjective; is that right?
Robert Spinner: It falls into two categories. The initial examination and evaluation I would say is based in fact. The opinion is subjective.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So ultimately your opinion -- this is what I was asking, I believe. Ultimately your opinion as to whose fingerprints match is a subjective opinion, correct?
Robert Spinner: That would be correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, you indicated -- in this last bit of testimony this afternoon, you indicated that, in essence, you received materials with regard to Item No. 317 from two different locations, right?
Robert Spinner: Two different times.
Mr. Sanger: Well, okay. Two different times. They were from two different bags, right?
Robert Spinner: That's correct, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. One bag you told us about there was Exhibit 529, which was an evidence bag, right?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And the other was the briefcase, which was actually 470, Exhibit 470, court exhibit?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And within 470 were a group of magazines, correct?
Robert Spinner: Among other items, yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And some loose pages as well?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And those materials were simply in the briefcase, right?
Robert Spinner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: They were not separately put into plastic bags or envelopes or anything else; is that right?
Robert Spinner: Not till I got ahold of it, yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: I'm talking about when you received it, those items were not put into separate evidence containers, whether it be a plastic bag, a paper bag or some other form, correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Now, you located ultimately 19 fingerprints that you've talked to the jury about, and we have the comparison boards there; is that correct? That's the right number?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Ten of the prints, including at least one that you attribute to Gavin Arvizo, came from items other than the bag, 529, that you believe came from the Department of Justice; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: I haven't totaled it up, but, yeah, I'll take your word for it.
Mr. Sanger: I don't want you to take my word for it. Is that approximately correct? Or you can total it up, if you'd like.
Robert Spinner: It would be approximately correct, yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And at least one of the prints from Gavin Arvizo came from something other than Evidence Bag 529; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: Correct.
Mr. Nicola: Objection. Misstates the evidence, Your Honor. The evidence is one, not “at least one”.
Mr. Sanger: Objection; speaking objections.
The Court: Sustained. The objection's overruled.
Mr. Sanger: Is that correct, sir? Is that correct? He may have answered. I don't know if the answer came in.
The Court: He said, “Correct”.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: Now, there were also two other prints that had been identified either as positive or inconclusive, and those two were switched or shifted at a date after your initial reports were written; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir. After a review by a third party, yes, sir. That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Let's talk about those two for a moment. You wrote final reports on the various latent print examinations that you did on a certain date in December; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: As the item process -- each item was finished, I had a mandate to complete a report within 24 hours of completing each item as I went, so it would -- when the report was written would depend on when the total completion date on that item was -- actually happened.
Mr. Sanger: I'm sorry.
Robert Spinner: Go ahead.
Mr. Sanger: What I'm asking, and maybe I wasn't clear, as of December of 2004, you had final reports written on your identification of the various prints; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: December the 17th, yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And then these two prints were subject to additional reports that you wrote sometime in 2005; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir, that's correct. That was due to an agreement that --
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to move to strike as nonresponsive.
Robert Spinner: Okay. That's correct, sir.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: One of the prints had been labeled as inconclusive as of December 2004; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then in January of 2005, you wrote a report indicating that you believed that that should be positive as to Star Arvizo; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir, that's correct.
Mr. Sanger: The other print had been written up, as of December 2004, as inconclusive -- I'm sorry, as positive as to Mr. Jackson, and then you changed that to inconclusive; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And that was based on additional consultation that you had?
Robert Spinner: Yes, with Mrs. Hemman and also I.D. Tech Allmeyer of the Santa Barbara Police Department.
Mr. Sanger: And I.D. Tech Allmeyer is somebody that you've known for a number of years; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir, it is.
Mr. Sanger: And he worked for the sheriff's department for quite some time?
Robert Spinner: I'm going to guess about four years before he went to another job.
Mr. Sanger: So that was not a stranger who you called upon to do a review of the work; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: No, but I trust his judgment.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, you indicated last week that you had examined about 80,000 prints in your career as a latent print examiner; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's an approximation, yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: 21,000 of them were in this case, correct?
Robert Spinner: Approximately, yes, sir, probably close to that.
Mr. Sanger: So over one quarter of your experience in comparing latent prints in cases occurred in the Michael Jackson investigation; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: It may be -- 80,000 may be slightly low. It could be -- it's -- to say the examination I've done just in this case alone is one quarter of my total experience I don't think is true.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So you want to revise the number upward from 80,000?
Robert Spinner: I would say it would be in the -- maybe the 100 to 120 figure. Probably not much more than that.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So a fifth -- if those figures are correct, a fifth to a sixth of the prints that you've examined in your career have been in Mr. Jackson's case; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That may be close, yes, sir. It was a large amount that we did all at once.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, you found 706 latent prints in this case that -- when I say “you found” -- let me withdraw that. The people in the unit who you were working with ultimately found 706 latent prints?
Robert Spinner: That's the number we were sent, yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So when you say “sent”, there were people in the Santa Barbara unit and there were people in the Santa Maria unit that were sending you prints?
Robert Spinner: They were providing us prints to examine, yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So 706 of them, right?
Robert Spinner: Correct. At my count, yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you matched up 20 or so?
Robert Spinner: There were 19 positive I.D.s out of that amount, yes.
Mr. Sanger: 19 as you testify today, but you had another positive I.D. that you changed back to inconclusive; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir, it is.
Mr. Sanger: That's why I say 20.
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir, 20.
Mr. Sanger: Of the 706 prints, there were 178 that you believe were sufficient to make a match if you had something to match it to; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct. Part of those were palm prints, and they weren't all fingerprints. I believe there was 13 palms mixed in that number.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Robert Spinner: If my memory serves me correctly.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So 165 fingerprints and 13 palm prints?
Robert Spinner: It sounds close, yes.
Mr. Sanger: You were asked to compare these fingerprints only -- and palm prints, for that matter, only to the prints that were presented to you for Mr. Jackson and for Gavin Arvizo and for Star Arvizo; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, we had a complete set of fingerprints for Gavin and Star Arvizo, but I only had exemplar fingerprints for Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Sanger: I'm sorry, say that -- what did you say?
Robert Spinner: I had no palm prints for Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Sanger: I see. So you just had fingerprints for Mr. Jackson?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now -- let me walk in between everybody here. Excuse me. May I approach, Your Honor? I'm sorry.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Let me show you 743, 744 and 745. And I believe that you had already said on direct examination that those are, in essence, blow-ups of the other prints that are in evidence; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Now, two of those are rolled prints, inked prints; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And one is the Livescan, which is a digital film -- I don't want to say “digital film”, but a digital representation of the prints; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And how many sets of fingerprints did you have for Star and Gavin Arvizo to work from?
Robert Spinner: We had two sets of each.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, for some reason you've just shown us -- or let me withdraw that. The prosecutor has shown you and you have identified one set of prints for each one, correct?
Mr. Nicola: Objection. Misstates the actual exhibit boards. I'd like counsel to be specific here, or it's vague.
The Court: Just a moment. The objection's overruled.
Mr. Sanger: Do you have both sets of rolled prints on each exhibit there?
Robert Spinner: One set of prints for Star Arvizo has two cards on it, and the one for Gavin Arvizo has one.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Was there another set of rolled prints for Gavin Arvizo that you're aware of?
Robert Spinner: Yes. But if my memory serves me correct, they were not -- they really weren't any good.
Mr. Sanger: And so those -- you had those redone? Did you have those redone?
Robert Spinner: They were redone at my request, yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Did you also have Star Arvizo's prints redone?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And you wanted to see if a better set of prints could be developed?
Robert Spinner: That's correct, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Did you believe at the time you looked at it that Mr. Jackson's prints were done appropriately?
Robert Spinner: They could have been done better, but they're appropriate, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And the same -- well, let me withdraw that. As far as Star Arvizo's, his first set was done appropriately but could have been better. Would that be your testimony?
Robert Spinner: His first set was okay, but they could have been better. As I recall, there was some smearing and areas that really couldn't be seen into as far as the clarity.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, we're talking about the known prints or the rolled prints, as they're usually called, of the particular subjects, right?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And one of them being Livescan, but what do you refer to them all as collectively? Known prints?
Robert Spinner: I call them exemplar prints.
Mr. Sanger: Exemplar prints, all right. And the idea is that if you do not have a good example in your exemplar prints, it makes it more difficult to determine whether or not a print, a latent print, is identifiable; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: You have to have -- yes, sir, it is. You have to have the same clarity to be able to see the detail in the known print that you have identified in the latent print.
Mr. Sanger: What sorts of things can cause known -- known prints or exemplar prints to be imperfect?
Robert Spinner: Deposition pressure. Torquing. When the print's rolled, sometimes the tip will roll faster than the base and you'll get some smearing going on.
Mr. Sanger: Imperfections in the paper?
Robert Spinner: Normally imperfections in the paper, that the card stock that's used is what's supplied by the state or the FBI, and it's pretty common, standard, and we don't get that much problem. It's a hard cardboard-type paper and it doesn't twist or bend.
Mr. Sanger: It doesn't twist or bend, but occasionally something will not show up on the print?
Robert Spinner: There might be an area that's blank. That would be deposition pressure.
Mr. Sanger: So in other words, there wasn't enough pressure put on the -- on the finger to apply it to the cardboard in order to transfer the ink?
Robert Spinner: That could be. Or it wasn't inked properly, if ink was used.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So the finger was not inked properly; therefore, there was not ink on that part of the finger to make the imprint on the paper, correct?
Robert Spinner: That would -- that's a loose definition, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Well, I don't want to be too loose. Is that close enough?
Robert Spinner: Or there was a blank spot, or there was a bubble, or there was some other reason why there was a -- not a total recording of the friction ridge skin.
Mr. Sanger: You talk about torquing. Is that turning the fingers so there's a smudge or a smear or a distortion?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Are there any other -- in rolled ink prints, are there any other causes that you're aware of of deformation in the print?
Robert Spinner: Well, you could have too much pressure also, which will cause the ridges to be wider when they wouldn't normally be, or they will normally either hide some detail because the ridge is flattened out.
Mr. Sanger: Too much ink might just cause a blot?
Robert Spinner: Too much ink might just cause some pressure, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, what about the Livescan prints that you have of Mr. Jackson? Can you tell me what deficiencies there are in those particular prints?
Robert Spinner: They're a little scattered, possibly because his hands were dry when they were rolled.
Mr. Sanger: So not all of the detail was actually transferred to the digital format; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: Not all of it in some areas, like below the base of the thumb, shows up, and why it's not there I don't want to hazard a guess.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So in other words, there should be more there -- if it was done properly, there would be more of a print, more ridge detail?
Robert Spinner: It would depend on, again, how the prints were rolled and who did it, and how much care was taken, et cetera, et cetera, with the Livescan, because you're not actually using ink. You're relying on moisture, a glass platen, which is then read by the machine to record the prints.
Mr. Sanger: Would you agree, based on your experience, that properly rolled ink prints are a better exemplar than Livescan?
Robert Spinner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Livescan, however, is used because it's more convenient; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: I don't know that “convenience” would be the proper word, but it's an overall method to get the fingerprints transferred back and forth, since it's just a digital, for the Department of Justice purposes rather than mailing inked cards.
Mr. Sanger: It's a little hard to hear. It's the end of the day, and I think you're trailing off.
Robert Spinner: I'll move closer.
Mr. Sanger: In other words, Livescan is simply a way to get it directly into a computer system so you can make a disk or send it by e-mail, you can send it off to the DOJ, to the FBI, correct?
Robert Spinner: It's a -- yes, sir, it's a quicker way of getting a set of inked -- rolled ink -- rolled fingerprints for identification.
Mr. Sanger: One of the reasons it's good to have rolled -- we're going back to rolled, which I kind of like. You said exemplar prints, so let's stick with that. We covered Livescan and inked prints, right?
Robert Spinner: Yes, sir. That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: So it's important to have a good set of exemplar prints so that you can look, as an examiner, to see if ridge detail matches ridge detail from the latent print to the exemplar print, correct?
Robert Spinner: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: You also need to look at the exemplar print, when comparing it to the latent print, in order to determine if there are any unexplained differences between the two; is that correct?
Robert Spinner: Well, you compare the two, latent to known, known to latent, and then you have to work out the discrepancies between the two, yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
The Court: Counsel, I'd like to stop a little early, because there's a couple issues we need to take up outside the presence of the jury.
Mr. Sanger: Yes, sir.
The Court: I'm going to excuse you now. We'll see you at 8:30 tomorrow morning. And remember, Thursday you won't come in.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: We need that door closed back there.
The Bailiff: I'll get it.
Robert Spinner: He took care of it, sir.
The Court: Let's see, the first issue I wanted to take up was whether or not -- the question of whether or not we should instruct the jury on the 1108 and perhaps 1101 evidence before, at the time of taking the evidence, during, after. I like to instruct juries on special points as we go along. I don't know when you intend to start your 1108 evidence, now that the ruling's been made. And you don't need to -- since I'm just putting that to you right now, you don't need to answer me now. I'd like to know tomorrow. And if you have a suggested instruction, I think there's a -- there might be a CALJIC that applies. I haven't looked. Anyway --
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, I believe they should be preinstructed. And yes, there is a CALJIC that's been approved by the courts to be given in such situations.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: And I would anticipate maybe in two weeks, depending on the length of cross-examination of certain witnesses.
The Court: So that gives everybody time if you want to submit a different instruction or a pinpoint instruction or....
Mr. Mesereau: We'd want to do that, Your Honor. There is some -- for example, burden of proof we think should wait till the end, but there are some preinstructions we would like on that issue.
The Court: I just put you on notice so you can start feeding me information. That gives me -- I can relax a little bit, because I know we have time to do this right.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
The Court: The second issue is there's a -- one of the -- one of the witnesses who's testified, Kiki Fournier, has called my secretary. And as I understand from my secretary, has contacted both attorneys and she has requested permission to travel outside the United States with her child, or children, I don't know. And she advised my secretary that she could not get agreement from the attorneys on her ability to do that. She's willing to be on a return call for 48 hours if someone needs her. So I need to get your position. I think she's basically testified and been cross-examined. I don't think she's been excused technically, but I don't like to prevent people from going on with their lives when we can make arrangements to allow them to go on with their lives and still be available when they're needed. What's --
Mr. Sneddon: Judge, I indicated that that was more than okay with me, that she could go. I anticipated that if we would want to re-call her, we would still have time, because we probably would not have rested by the date she plans on returning, so therefore it shouldn't be a concern in terms of the defense calling her, because she would be available if they wanted to. So as far as I'm concerned, she could do that. If an emergency arose, and we need her to come back, it sounds like she's willing to come back and we would arrange that. So as far as I'm concerned, she can go and should go.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, I don't want to interfere with her travel plans at all. Our concern is there is a great likelihood we will re-call her for a lot of reasons I don't want to disclose at the present.
The Court: Nor do you need to.
Mr. Mesereau: It seems to me that her plans -- I don't know where she's going or when she plans to leave. But her plans are to be back in the near future, is that correct?
The Court: Within -- within 28 days, I think. And I think she plans to leave immediately. You probably know more than I do. My secretary just said we have a problem here, and --
Mr. Sneddon: I can assist the Court and Mr. Mesereau in this regard, Your Honor. My information is she needed to book the tickets today. She was going to leave immediately and she'd be back the first week in May.
The Court: So that's more than the estimated time I thought. But at any rate, if you're not going to put on your 1108 evidence for two more weeks, I can see that -- it seems to me that's a safe return date for her.
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah.
The Court: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Again, I don't want to interfere with her plans.
The Court: I would require that she sign a statement like -- she's on subpoena, and it's not uncommon. In fact, it's more common than not that we put these people on call, under an agreement, and the code section provides for that. And I would have her sign an agreement to return upon 48 hours' notice if there was an emergency before her return date. And then I would personally go to Europe and get her if she --
Mr. Mesereau: We will agree to that, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Even if it took me months to find her. (Laughter.)
The Court: I think it's the right thing to do, so I appreciate that. I'll take care of that. Then I think we're through for the day. Thank you, everyone. I'll see you tomorrow at 8:30.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:35 p.m.
