Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Tuesday, April 5, 2005 8:30 a.m.
The Court: Good morning.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
The Court: Mr. Mesereau?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. Thank you, Your Honor.
Message: JASON FRANCIA Having been previously sworn, resumed the stand and testified further as follows:
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION Continued BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Francia, we were discussing yesterday your first interview with two police detectives which took place on November 3rd, 1993, okay?
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: That's where we left off. Now, did you discuss your testimony yesterday with anyone after you left the courthouse?
Jason Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Who did you discuss it with?
Jason Francia: My wife.
Mr. Mesereau: Anyone else?
Jason Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss it with any prosecutor?
Jason Francia: No, I was kind of nervous. I said, “How'd it go?” And they smiled and they said, “It went well”.
Mr. Mesereau: And which prosecutor told you that?
Jason Francia: I can't specifically remember, but it was one of them.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you discuss anything else with one of them?
Jason Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk with any sheriff about your testimony?
Jason Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you on the phone last night with anyone about your testimony?
Jason Francia: No. I did tell my pastor this morning that I was on the stand, and if he could pray for me. But other than that, that was it.
Mr. Mesereau: Anyone else?
Jason Francia: Nope.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, yesterday you told the jury that Mr. Jackson had given you some money, correct?
Jason Francia: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told them he had given you hundred-dollar bills, right?
Jason Francia: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: Isn't it true that when you were originally interviewed by the police, you told them that Mr. Jackson would give you money each time you read a book?
Jason Francia: Yeah, he also said that, as well. Yeah, he'd give me $20, I think it was.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told the police that you remember him having a room full of books, and you said every time you complete a book, he'll pay you some money, right?
Jason Francia: I don't remember that, but I remember listening to it on the tape.
Mr. Mesereau: But that was your voice on the tape, correct?
Jason Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You also told the police that Mr. Jackson told you one time that if you got A's in school, he would also pay you every time you got an A, correct?
Jason Francia: Yes. That is correct. I remember -- I don't remember him saying that, but I remember it on the tape.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was your voice on the tape?
Jason Francia: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Telling it to the police, correct?
Jason Francia: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you met with the prosecutors before you testified, did anyone tell you not to mention that when you talked about money?
Jason Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You just forgot?
Jason Francia: I'm sorry?
Mr. Mesereau: You just forgot yesterday?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Mesereau: When you were responding the prosecutor's questions --
The Court: Wait. He has a question pending.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh, I'm sorry.
The Court: I overruled the objection.
Jason Francia: Can you repeat the question?
The Court: The question was, “You just forgot yesterday?”
Jason Francia: I have no idea what you're referring to. I just forgot about what?
Mr. Mesereau: About Mr. Jackson paying you money for, one, reading a book --
Jason Francia: No --
Mr. Mesereau: -- and, two, getting A's.
Jason Francia: I didn't remember that, but I remember saying that on the tape.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, following your interview with two police officers in November of 1993, to your knowledge, Mr. Jackson was never charged with a crime involving anything you said, correct?
Jason Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever hear anything about that?
Jason Francia: I -- no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. To this day, you're not sure if Mr. Jackson was ever charged with any crime involving --
Jason Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: -- what you claim happened?
Jason Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You also were interviewed a second time.
Jason Francia: There's a hand being raised behind you guys over there.
Mr. Mesereau: You were interviewed a second time on March 24th, 1994. Do you remember that?
Jason Francia: Again, I personally don't remember, and I didn't even really listen to that tape, so -- and I didn't get a transcript for it either, so I didn't even review it.
Mr. Mesereau: You were given a tape of your second interview?
Jason Francia: I was, but I did not listen to it.
Mr. Mesereau: And who gave you that tape?
Jason Francia: It came in the same packet as tape one and with the transcript.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember present at that interview was Tom Sneddon?
Jason Francia: I remember saying that yesterday, yeah. And I also remember saying that I was unsure if he was there or not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you do remember now he was there, right?
Jason Francia: I did not say that.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you a transcript?
Jason Francia: Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Jason Francia: Is this a transcript of '94?
Mr. Mesereau: (Nods head up and down.)
Jason Francia: So these are the people that were there? I -- I can't ask that.
The Court: He's asking you to look at that and see if that refreshes your memory to see --
Jason Francia: No, it does not refresh my memory.
Mr. Mesereau: So you don't remember if you were interviewed by Tom Sneddon and two district attorneys in '94?
Jason Francia: I remember Mike Craft being there. That was the only person. And a woman being there. Other than that, I cannot -- because I think that was the first time I told a woman what happened.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember someone named Lauren Weis from the Los Angeles District Attorney's Office being there --
Jason Francia: I don't. I'm really bad at names.
Mr. Mesereau: I have to complete the question. Thank you. Do you remember someone named Lauren Weis from the Los Angeles District Attorney's Office being present at that interview?
Jason Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember someone named Bill Hodgeman from the Los Angeles District Attorney's Office being at that interview?
Jason Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And you don't remember whether or not Mr. Sneddon was there, right?
Jason Francia: I -- correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you saying he wasn't there, or you just don't remember?
Jason Francia: I don't remember whether he was there or not.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember Russ Birchim being there?
Jason Francia: I do not.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember your own lawyer, Terry Cannon, being there?
Jason Francia: I do not.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember stating in that interview, “They made me come out with a lot more stuff I didn't want to say. They kept pushing. I wanted to get up and hit them in the head”? Do you remember that?
Jason Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you the transcript of that?
Jason Francia: Probably not. But you can show it to me anyway.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What page, Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: 30.
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that page of the transcript?
Jason Francia: I have.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about what you've said?
Jason Francia: No, it does not.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember anything you said in that interview at the moment?
Jason Francia: Not really.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. Do you remember in that interview telling the people who were present that at one point a woman came into a room where you and Michael were present?
Jason Francia: No, I do not.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember seeing Janet Jackson on one occasion?
Jason Francia: I remember saying that, or do I remember seeing her?
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember seeing her?
Jason Francia: I think I did meet her once.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember where you met her?
Jason Francia: I think it was at the mansion in Encino.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jason Francia: But I really -- like, I think that's where it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember telling the sheriffs that the first time you were tickled by Mr. Jackson you think it lasted about 30 seconds?
Jason Francia: Are we talking the first interview, second interview?
Mr. Mesereau: Either one.
Jason Francia: I do not remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You do remember giving more information the second time, correct?
Mr. Zonen: “Second time?” Objection; vague.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me. He's correct. I'll withdraw it.
Mr. Mesereau: You do recall giving more information during your second interview than you did in your first, right?
Jason Francia: I do not recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How did you meet Attorney Terry Cannon?
Jason Francia: I can't -- I think I met them at Mike Craft's office.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me, at whose office?
Jason Francia: Mike Craft's, my counselor.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And does Terry Cannon still represent you?
Jason Francia: I don't think so, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you gave an interview with Mr. Zonen in December of 2004, correct?
Jason Francia: Yes. That was the first time I think I met them.
Mr. Mesereau: And Terry Cannon was present, correct?
Jason Francia: You're right.
Mr. Mesereau: And Terry Cannon at that time was working for the District Attorney's Office in San Diego, correct?
Jason Francia: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: But he still came up to act like your lawyer, didn't he?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object to the expression, “act like your lawyer”; vague. Or argumentative.
The Court: Well, I guess instead of “like”, it might be “as”.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Cannon was present at your interview with Ron Zonen on December 6th, 2004, right?
Jason Francia: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: At that interview, he was serving as your lawyer, correct?
Jason Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know why he was there?
Jason Francia: I didn't really know. I was asked by -- actually, I didn't even know how I met you guys. I was asked to be there, I think, and he was there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did he give you any legal advice before that meeting?
Jason Francia: Actually, he said, “You don't have to answer things if you don't want to”, but I think that was just a -- man advice.
Mr. Mesereau: So he was giving legal advice?
Jason Francia: I don't know if that's legal advice or not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he discuss with you what you were going to say in that interview?
Jason Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember when that interview began, you requested that your interview not be tape-recorded?
Jason Francia: I don't remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you a report on that interview?
Jason Francia: Okay. Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that report?
Jason Francia: I read the first paragraph.
Mr. Mesereau: And does it refresh your recollection that you requested that your interview not be tape-recorded?
Jason Francia: It does not, but I probably said that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You don't know for sure, though?
Jason Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you had requested that Mr. Cannon be present at the interview, right?
Jason Francia: You're going to have to show me the paper probably.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Jason Francia: (Nods head up and down.)
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at the report?
Jason Francia: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection that you wanted Mr. Cannon present?
Jason Francia: It does not refresh my recollection.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me just try and get this straight. You don't know why Mr. Cannon was there, correct?
Jason Francia: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't ask him to be there, right?
Jason Francia: I don't remember whether I asked for him to be there or not. I probably did, only because he was a friend of mine and he knows more legal stuff than I do.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you know he was working for a District Attorney's Office at the time?
Jason Francia: I believe I did, because we kept in touch --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jason Francia: -- after I was 18.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, Mr. Zonen began that interview by telling you about the current case involving Mr. Jackson, right?
Jason Francia: I didn't understand the question.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, let me try and rephrase it.
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: At the beginning of that interview, Mr. Zonen gave you his summary of the current case against Mr. Jackson, right?
Jason Francia: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: And he told you about a family named “Arvizo”, right?
Jason Francia: Really bad at names. If that's -- he told me about a child molestation.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. That these were the charges against Mr. Jackson, right?
Jason Francia: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you ever met Janet Arvizo?
Jason Francia: I don't know who that is.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever met David Arvizo?
Jason Francia: I don't know who that is.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever met Gavin Arvizo?
Jason Francia: Oh, that -- I do know who that is. No, I have not met him.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever met Star Arvizo?
Jason Francia: I have never met an Arvizo I don't think.
Mr. Mesereau: Never met Davellin Arvizo, correct?
Jason Francia: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever talked to any of the Arvizo family on the telephone?
Jason Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But Mr. Zonen was telling you about the Arvizo family, was he not?
Jason Francia: If that's the child's parents, then yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Incidentally, after your second interview, which you don't remember a lot about, to your knowledge, no criminal charges were ever filed against Mr. Jackson involving anything you had told anybody, right?
Jason Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You still don't know?
Jason Francia: I -- are you talking about '94, the '94 interview?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jason Francia: Okay. And you're asking if there was criminal charges pressed against Michael?
Mr. Mesereau: I'm asking you what you know, okay? You've already indicated that after your '93 interview, no criminal charges were ever filed against Mr. Jackson involving anything you said, right?
Jason Francia: I don't know much. I don't watch the news.
Mr. Mesereau: And -- okay. And after your '94 interview, again, no criminal charges were ever filed against Mr. Jackson involving anything you said, right?
Jason Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But at your '94 interview, you do remember Terry Cannon being present, right?
Jason Francia: I don't know. I don't know who was present other than Michael Craft in '94.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. To your knowledge, was it your mom's idea for you to have an attorney at that meeting?
Jason Francia: To my knowledge, I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And again, just for the record, how old were you --
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as vague as to which meeting.
Mr. Mesereau: He's correct. I'll withdraw it.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, was it your mother's idea to have an attorney be present at the March 24th, 1994, interview?
Jason Francia: To my knowledge, I have no clue.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jason Francia: When I was 13, I was really protected by my mom, so I didn't know much --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jason Francia: -- about anything.
Mr. Mesereau: And certainly when you were 13, you didn't hire an attorney, someone else did, right?
Jason Francia: I didn't -- probably.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Do you remember meeting with Attorney Terry Cannon, with your mother, in 1994?
Jason Francia: I do not remember, but I'm sure we did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. Do you remember meeting with any other attorneys that your mother had retained in 1994?
Jason Francia: Other than Terry Cannon?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jason Francia: I don't remember. But there was another attorney, which is Kris Kallman.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And Kris Kallman is the attorney who represented you in a settlement with Mr. Jackson, right?
Jason Francia: I don't know whether it was Kris or Terry.
Mr. Mesereau: And Kris also represented your mother, who wanted a settlement with Mr. Jackson, correct?
Jason Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, do you know whether or not your mother went to these attorneys after she learned that Mr. Jackson had settled with someone named Chandler?
Jason Francia: I do not.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; lack of foundation.
The Court: Court reporter, was that an answer on there?
The Reporter: Yes.
The Court: I'll overrule the objection. The answer was, “I do not”.
Mr. Mesereau: Why didn't you want your interview in December of 2004 with the prosecutors tape-recorded?
Jason Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't have any idea why you made that request?
Jason Francia: Tape-recording is weird. I don't know. No, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember telling Prosecutor Zonen in the December 2004 interview regarding the first incident you described - okay? - that you and Mr. Jackson were in a tickle contest? Do you remember that?
Jason Francia: I do not. I don't know whether it was the first interview or the second interview that we talked about Michael molesting me.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, actually, in the December interview, you told Prosecutor Zonen that, in all three instances that you described where you claim you were inappropriately touched, every incident was preceded by a tickling contest between you and Mr. Jackson, right?
Jason Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection just to show you the report?
Jason Francia: You can show it to me, but I don't know whether it was the first or the second.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to review that page of the report?
Jason Francia: I didn't read the whole page. I read that paragraph.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about what you told Prosecutor Zonen in that December 6th, 2004, interview?
Jason Francia: It doesn't -- I don't -- it doesn't help remembering, but --
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you told him that all three events that you described were preceded by a tickling contest, correct?
Jason Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: You and Mr. Jackson were in a contest as to who could tickle the most, correct?
Jason Francia: I just said I don't remember that. I don't mean to sound like I'm wasting your time, but this is kind of hard being up here, and --
Mr. Mesereau: No, please don't. Just respond to my questions, if you would, please.
Jason Francia: Okay. Sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, on November 19th, 2004, Prosecutor Zonen and Auchincloss interviewed your mother at the District Attorney's Office, right?
Jason Francia: I don't know. Me and my mother don't talk about that stuff much.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you were present, weren't you?
Jason Francia: Now I remember, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now you remember?
Jason Francia: Yeah. I was present there.
Mr. Mesereau: You not only were present, but you also requested that that not be tape-recorded, correct?
Jason Francia: Probably.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know?
Jason Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection to look at that report?
Jason Francia: No. But bring it on up.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: No, he said it wouldn't.
Mr. Mesereau: You're not willing to look at it?
Jason Francia: It's not about me willing. I'm willing to look at it, but it's not going to help.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, that was last November you had that interview with your mom and these prosecutors, correct?
Jason Francia: Again, this is all difficult.
Mr. Mesereau: I know it's difficult, but you're saying you don't remember that interview?
Jason Francia: You just said I met with my mom and I was there, and I didn't remember until you said that, and then I remembered.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember you and your mom both requested that the interview not be tape-recorded?
Jason Francia: I do not.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection to see what it says in the report about that?
Jason Francia: Bring it over. It -- yeah. Bring it over.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at the page of that report?
Jason Francia: Yeah, I read the first paragraph.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about you and your mother both requesting no tape-recording?
Jason Francia: No, it does not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You don't remember one way or the other about that?
Jason Francia: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, on that particular day, and I'm referring to November 19th, 2004, you were interviewed as well, correct?
Jason Francia: Was this when my mother was present?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember you were interviewed on that day?
Jason Francia: I think I was just there for my mom.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, actually, they interviewed your mom first and then they interviewed you second, correct?
Jason Francia: I don't remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. They interviewed you for about an hour, didn't they?
Jason Francia: They may have.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you the report about that?
Jason Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You're not willing to look at it?
Jason Francia: I'll look at it. I'll look at it, but no, it probably won't.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't remember an hour interview on November 19th, 2004?
Jason Francia: Again, the issue is it's all kind of blending in together.
Mr. Mesereau: You do remember the December interview with Prosecutor Zonen, right?
Jason Francia: You asked me that --
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jason Francia: Go ahead, ask it again. Do I remember the December interview?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jason Francia: I remember it taking place. I don't remember what specific was asked.
Mr. Mesereau: Actually, let me clarify the date.
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I'm talking about the report. You were interviewed on October 18th, 2004, by prosecutors, right?
Jason Francia: I'm sorry?
Mr. Mesereau: You were interviewed on October 18th by prosecutors, correct?
Jason Francia: Of 2004?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jason Francia: I believe that was the first time that I met these guys, but I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: And then you were interviewed approximately a month later on November 19th, right?
Jason Francia: You got a bunch of hands raised behind you.
The Bailiff: Mr. Mesereau, could you check if it's on? I guess they can't hear you back there.
Jason Francia: Sorry, that's what was kind of distracting me.
Mr. Mesereau: I had mentioned a December date. Actually, you were interviewed in October and November of 2004, right?
Jason Francia: October, November, December. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember having Terry Cannon --
Jason Francia: They're raising their hands again.
The Court: Quit hitting my microphone.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh. Okay.
The Court: Beat the poor thing -- you know, what's happening, you have a book that's hitting the “off” button. I can see from here that you can't see, maybe.
Mr. Mesereau: I think it's on, but --
The Court: Gently.
Jason Francia: Yeah, it's bad to hit mikes.
The Bailiff: Actually, it's -- when you step back and are at a far distance, it's hard to hear.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: In your interview with the prosecutors on October 18th --
Jason Francia: This is the first one?
Mr. Mesereau: Well, first we have '93. Then we have '94.
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Then we have October of 2004, and then November of 2004. Okay?
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: In your interview in October of 2004, you were asked about the third incident where you claim Mr. Jackson tickled your testicles, right?
Jason Francia: I was probably asked that, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember you told the prosecutors it lasted for more than ten seconds, but you don't know how much longer after that?
Jason Francia: I don't remember saying that.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I showed you your report?
Jason Francia: My report? No, it wouldn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, the police reports.
Jason Francia: The police report. I'll look at it, but it's probably not going to help.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you willing to give it a chance?
Jason Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Think it might help?
Jason Francia: No. I'm sorry. But you can -- I'll give it a shot.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at the page of that report?
Jason Francia: I have.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection that you told the prosecutors it lasted more than ten seconds?
Jason Francia: It does not help me remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Don't remember that at all?
Jason Francia: No, but I could probably agree with it if it was in the report.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Before either the October interview or the November interview with prosecutors, did you discuss what you were going to say in any of those interviews with your mother?
Jason Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You would agree that Attorney Terry Cannon was present at both the October interview, 2004, and the November interview, 2004, right?
Jason Francia: I can't remember whether he was there on the November one with me and my mom.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss what you were going to say at either interview in advance with Attorney Terry Cannon?
Jason Francia: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: How did he end up showing up for any of those interviews, if you know?
Jason Francia: I think he called me and said I might be subpoenaed for this. I can't -- I think Kris called me and said I might be subpoenaed up here.
Mr. Mesereau: Correct me if I'm wrong, I think you said yesterday that you never knew that your mother had gotten $20,000 from the television show Hard Copy to give an interview.
Jason Francia: I think you're wrong.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you know that before you testified yesterday?
Jason Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you first learn that your mother got $20,000 to give an interview with Hard Copy in the early '90s?
Jason Francia: I think it was last Sunday.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And I guess she told you that?
Jason Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: She's never told you that?
Jason Francia: That she received $20,000? She has never told me that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know before last week that your mother had been paid to go on the television show Hard Copy?
Jason Francia: I think I assumed it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you didn't know for sure?
Jason Francia: I didn't know for sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Never discussed it with her?
Jason Francia: I don't think I did, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. Now, you admitted that at the beginning of your first interview with sheriffs in '93, you said that Mr. Jackson had not touched your genital area, right?
Jason Francia: I said that at the very beginning.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: It was only after you were pushed real hard by the sheriffs that you began to say anything like that, true?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: And at one point a sheriff actually used a curse word to get you to say something, correct?
Jason Francia: I don't remember that, but you could show me the thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But as you sit here today, you don't remember, right?
Jason Francia: I don't remember the four-letter word. Everybody in junior high cussed.
Mr. Mesereau: How about the word “bullshit”?
Jason Francia: What about it?
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember a sheriff telling you that?
Jason Francia: I don't, but I think I remember listening to it on the tape.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember in that interview one sheriff telling you, “Mr. Jackson is a molester”, and the other saying, “He makes great music, he's a great guy, bullshit”? Do you remember that?
Jason Francia: I don't remember that specifically, but I think I remember hearing it on the tape, which was my voice, or his voice.
Mr. Mesereau: You do remember a sheriff's voice saying that, right?
Jason Francia: I don't remember right now of '93, but I remember listening to the tape.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And a sheriff said that to you, correct?
Jason Francia: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: And the sheriffs complained that, “Mr. Jackson has a lot of money” in that interview, right?
Jason Francia: I believe he did say that, but can I look at the paper?
Mr. Mesereau: Sure. May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at the transcript?
Jason Francia: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about what the sheriffs said to you about Mr. Jackson in the interview?
Jason Francia: I don't remember that specifically, but reading it in the transcript, I remember reading that in the transcript when I read it on Sunday, when I reviewed the tape.
Mr. Mesereau: And even after sheriffs said to you, “He's a molester, he's a great guy, makes great music, bullshit, he has lots of money”, you still said he had never touched your genital area, right?
Jason Francia: I believe so. Probably towards the beginning again.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember the sheriff interviewing you wanted to know whether Mr. Jackson went under your pants or on top of your underwear, and you said, “I don't know”?
Jason Francia: I'm sorry?
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember the interviewing sheriff asked you, “Have you ever been touched under your pants or on top of your underwear?” And you said, “I don't know”?
Jason Francia: Were we talking about a specific incident?
Mr. Mesereau: I'm just asking about the interview.
Jason Francia: Oh. Then --
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as vague, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember in that interview, when you first said in response to the sheriffs questions, “Mr. Jackson touched me”, you had no idea how long he had ever touched you?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; vague. Which incident?
Mr. Mesereau: During any incident?
The Court: Do you want to rephrase the whole question?
Mr. Mesereau: Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember in your first interview with the sheriffs when, after repeated questioning, you finally said, “Mr. Jackson touched me”, do you remember not knowing how long he had ever touched you at any time?
Jason Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember telling the sheriffs that Mr. Jackson, during your tickle games, used to pinch you in the stomach?
Jason Francia: Tickling, pinching. Same thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You did tell the sheriffs in your first interview you had never spent the night with Mr. Jackson, right?
Jason Francia: I never slept in his bed with him.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When did you last talk to Attorney Terry Cannon?
Jason Francia: Yesterday.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk about your testimony?
Jason Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk about the case?
Jason Francia: Nope.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he call you --
Jason Francia: Wait, actually, I'm sorry, I didn't talk about the case, but I talked about I was being nervous up here.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you call him or did he call you?
Jason Francia: He called me.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last talk to Attorney Terry Cannon before yesterday?
Jason Francia: Um -- um, um, um, um. I really cannot remember the specific date.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, in your interview of March 24th, 1994, you didn't remember what cartoons you were watching when you claim you were improperly touched, right?
Jason Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know you were being tape-recorded in that interview?
Jason Francia: You know what? I don't know. Typically I'd remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you remember telling the interviewers that Michael Jackson tickled you in your stomach?
Jason Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't remember that?
Jason Francia: No. Can I review that?
Mr. Mesereau: Sure.
Jason Francia: Is that -- it was being taped then? Or you can't say. Okay, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What page, Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: 58.
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: You remember telling the people interviewing you that Mr. Jackson did tickle you in your stomach, right?
Jason Francia: I do not remember saying that, but I probably said that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember in that interview when you finally said Mr. Jackson had touched your penis, that you told the interviewers, “He tickled me there”? Right?
Jason Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember you were asked, “What did he do with his hands?” And you said, “He tickled me”. Do you remember that?
Jason Francia: “What did he do with his hands?” And I said, “He tickled me”?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jason Francia: That's kind of vague. Like overall he tickled me, or what are you talking about?
Mr. Mesereau: You were asked what Mr. Jackson did with your penis. Do you remember that? And you said, “He tickled me”. Do you remember that?
Jason Francia: He did tickle me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You were asked to describe what Mr. Jackson did with his hands, and your response was, “He tickled me”, true?
Jason Francia: I don't know. I was probably crying then.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you like to review the transcript, see if it refreshes your recollection?
Jason Francia: Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: By the way, if you don't remember the interview, how do you know you were crying?
Jason Francia: Because I usually cry when we're talking about the molestation.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Again, do you remember saying to the police officers in response to their question, “What did he do with your penis?” You said, “He tickled me”?
Jason Francia: I thought you were going to bring me that thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you like to see it?
Jason Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember describing what Mr. Jackson did as tickling?
Jason Francia: Do I remember describing what Michael Jackson did as tickling?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jason Francia: Like tickling my penis or --
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jason Francia: Are we talking the first or second or third incident?
Mr. Mesereau: I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: Well, I'm going to object as vague.
The Court: The objection is sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling the interviewers in that second interview in 1994, when they asked you what Mr. Jackson did with your penis, you said, “He didn't really touch it, he was above my shorts”? Do you remember that?
Jason Francia: Are we talking first or second or third?
Mr. Mesereau: I believe you were just answering their questions.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; vague.
The Court: Sustained. Counsel, you're going to have to direct -- if you're going to question in this manner, you're going to have to direct it to specific times. There were three interviews.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I'm sorry, Your Honor.
The Court: And you're being unfair to the witness in my opinion.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Directing you to the second interview that you ever gave about these events, okay? And that was the interview --
Jason Francia: In '94?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. Okay?
Jason Francia: I thought we were talking about 2004. I'm sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. That's my mistake, I apologize. Let's talk about the 1994 interview.
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: All right? Do you remember being asked the question, “Did Mr. Jackson touch your penis?” And you said, “He didn't really touch it, he was above my shorts”?
Jason Francia: I do not --
The Court: Wait. Just a minute.
Jason Francia: I'm sorry.
The Court: I want you to approach.
Mr. Mesereau: Sure. (Discussion held off the record at sidebar.)
The Court: All right. You may proceed.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I'm going to try and direct my questions to a particular interview, one of the four that you had, and direct them to one of the three events that you have described when you claim Mr. Jackson improperly touched you, okay? Now, directing your attention to the second interview, which is in 1994 - okay? - and directing your attention to the first event that you have described where you claim Mr. Jackson improperly touched you - okay? - do you remember -- excuse me. Isn't it true that, when asked about the first event in that second interview, you said Mr. Jackson didn't really touch your penis?
Jason Francia: I don't --
Mr. Zonen: What page?
Mr. Mesereau: 60.
Jason Francia: No, I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you a page of that transcript?
Jason Francia: Bring it over.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach?
The Court: Yes.
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that page?
Jason Francia: I have. Well, not the tape. I've read those two little sentences there.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection of what you told the people who were interviewing you about that first event during the interview in 1994?
Jason Francia: It does not refresh my memory. But in reading it --
The Court: Wait. That's the end of your answer.
Jason Francia: Okay. Sorry.
The Court: Listen to the question and just answer the question asked.
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: You just don't recall saying that, right?
Jason Francia: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Could you please describe, to the extent you remember, the sleeping bag in the apartment that you called the hideout?
Jason Francia: Describe the bag itself?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. If you remember. How big it was, where it was, et cetera.
Jason Francia: Near a window. If you're looking at the T.V., to the right of the T.V.
Mr. Mesereau: And there was no furniture in the apartment that you remember?
Jason Francia: I did not say that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What did you say?
Jason Francia: I said that there was an L-shaped couch in the hideout somewhere, in the living room, I believe.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And at any time when you claim you were improperly touched, were you sitting on the couch?
Jason Francia: No, I never said that either.
Mr. Mesereau: During the events that you've described at the hideout --
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: -- where you say you were improperly tickled - okay? --
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: -- were you always on top of the sleeping bag?
Jason Francia: No. The first time I was on a chair.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. The second time you were on a sleeping bag, right?
Jason Francia: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did both of those instances start out as tickle contests?
Jason Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And in both of those incidences that you've described, you recall it starting out as innocent sort of tickling and leading to an improper touching, right?
Jason Francia: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you've admitted that Mr. Jackson said he would pay you money for completing a book and also for getting A's in school, right?
Jason Francia: I remember hearing that on the tape.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Mr. Jackson saying that to you?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall being paid for reading a book?
Jason Francia: I wasn't a reader.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell Mr. Jackson, if you remember, “I've completed a book”?
Jason Francia: If I did, I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember telling Mr. Jackson you got A's in school?
Jason Francia: If I did get an A, it was probably in P.E.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you remember telling that to Mr. Jackson?
Jason Francia: I don't think I ever did. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, without going into any amounts, when did you ever receive any money?
Jason Francia: From Michael?
Mr. Mesereau: From a settlement --
Jason Francia: Oh.
Mr. Mesereau: -- in your case.
Jason Francia: From the settlement?
Mr. Mesereau: Without going into any amounts, just when did you first receive any money?
Jason Francia: When I turned 18.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Without going into any amounts, do you know if your mother has received any money from Mr. Jackson?
Jason Francia: She has.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when she received money from a settlement?
Jason Francia: I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know if it was before you did?
Jason Francia: I think it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you ever been approached by anyone in the media who wanted to talk to you about anything involving Mr. Jackson?
Jason Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did that happen?
Jason Francia: Geez. When I was in junior high; when I was -- shoot, in '93 -- in '93, '94 I think. Recently. Well, actually, not recently. A couple years ago. They -- yeah, the media.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know how the media ever heard about you?
Jason Francia: I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jason Francia: Actually, I talked to a media guy once.
Mr. Mesereau: Who was that?
Jason Francia: I don't remember. He had a British accent. But I did not say anything about the case, or anything about Michael. What --
Mr. Mesereau: And when did this happen?
Mr. Zonen: I'm not sure the witness had completed his answer.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh, I'm sorry, I thought he had.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you finished?
Jason Francia: No, I wasn't.
Mr. Mesereau: My mistake.
The Court: Let's just stop. There wasn't any question pending. He was in a narrative for some reason. Next question.
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when you spoke to a representative of the media?
Jason Francia: I don't. I know I was late to class, but I don't. I was in -- probably '92 or '93.
Mr. Mesereau: How about in recent -- the last couple years, anyone approach you, to your knowledge?
Jason Francia: Well, to my knowledge, no. They tried to, but I somehow always evade them. Not on purpose. It just happens.
Mr. Mesereau: In your second interview in 1994, you were asked, “Did you ever have any discussion with Michael Jackson about whether you should tell anybody about the things you described?” Remember that?
Jason Francia: (Shakes head from side to side.)
Mr. Mesereau: You don't? Okay.
Jason Francia: No, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember telling the interviewers, when you were asked do you remember anything that he said, you said, “No, I'm working on that”?
Jason Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as to which interview; vague.
Mr. Mesereau: In the second interview, I'm sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: In the second interview -- let me rephrase the question. I'll withdraw it. In the second interview in 1994 - okay? --
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: -- that was recorded - all right? - when asked if Mr. Jackson said anything to you about whether you should discuss what happened, do you remember telling the interviewers, “No, but I'm working on that”?
Jason Francia: I do not remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you the transcript?
Jason Francia: No. But -- you could bring it over.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, I can't unless you're willing to see if it refreshes your recollection.
Jason Francia: Okay. Bring it over. I'll give it a shot. I'll read it just to see if it refreshes my memory.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Page, Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. Pages 105, 106.
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to review those pages --
Jason Francia: I have.
Mr. Mesereau: -- of your transcript? Do they refresh your recollection about what you said on that subject?
Jason Francia: No, it does not.
Mr. Mesereau: It doesn't.
Jason Francia: Sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, in that interview you indicated that you were aware that another boy had sued Mr. Jackson seeking money, right?
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry, which interview? Objection.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry, the second -- let me rephrase it.
Mr. Mesereau: In the second interview that you gave in 1994 - okay? --
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: -- you indicated that you were aware that someone else had sued Mr. Jackson for money, correct?
Jason Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection to look at the transcript?
Jason Francia: Probably not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jason Francia: Both of them are really blurry. It was just hard for me at the time.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, let me ask you this.
Jason Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Looking back, when is the first time you recall you knew someone else had sued Mr. Jackson looking for money?
Jason Francia: Probably 16.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me?
Jason Francia: I was probably 16. Because that's when money started being an issue for me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, in your last interview with Prosecutor Zonen - and I'm talking about an interview on November 19th, 2004, okay? - Mr. Cannon was present, right?
Jason Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Mr. Cannon not wanting a defense investigator present?
Jason Francia: No, I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know anything about that?
Jason Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. At this time, I have no further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Redirect?
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Francia, did you get any money from Mr. Jackson for reading a book?
Jason Francia: I don't think so.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever get any money from Mr. Jackson for getting A's?
Jason Francia: I don't think so.
Mr. Zonen: Were grades a problem for you when you were in school about that time?
Jason Francia: Shoot, through all my whole life, grades were a problem.
Mr. Zonen: Did you -- do you sometimes have difficulty with reading?
Jason Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: At this time even?
Jason Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: All right. A lot of questions were asked of you by Mr. Mesereau that dealt with that first interview that took place in 1993, the first time that there was a disclosure. And you indicated, I believe, that what you said toward the end of the interview was very different than what you said at the beginning of the interview. Would you explain that for us, please? Why is that?
Jason Francia: Why there was a difference in the beginning and --
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Jason Francia: Because in the beginning, I thought I could hold them off and make them go away. And they didn't go away. At all. It's kind of an issue when I was 13. I didn't want to tell anybody that I'd been molested; that I didn't want to tell anybody that anything ever happened to me. That's weird.
Mr. Zonen: Why?
Jason Francia: Because you're 13. That's weird.
Mr. Zonen: What were the issues that you were dealing with at that time about that?
Jason Francia: In fifth grade, I told my friends that I knew Michael Jackson, and I thought it was cool. My friends thought it was cool. They didn't believe me. But they thought it was cool. In junior high, it's no longer cool to know somebody that had issues with kids, because then they're going to make fun of you. And even at the church, they made fun of me. At the church, worse than school, they made fun of me.
Mr. Zonen: And you were actually teased?
Jason Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: You said yesterday to one of Mr. Mesereau's questions that you told the detective, “No, I'm not gay”. Did you make that statement to them?
Jason Francia: I remember listening to it in the tape. I don't recall saying that. But I remember listening to it on the tape.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recall whether or not that was an issue for you during the course of that interview, that that was one of your concerns, that people would see you as that?
Jason Francia: Yes. That was a concern of mine.
Mr. Zonen: You mentioned yesterday to one of Mr. Mesereau's questions that the defendant put the money down your pants. Would you describe that for us?
Jason Francia: What do you want to know?
Mr. Zonen: Where did the money go? In other words, when he -- when he gave you money, did he hand it to you, or did he do something else? And if so, tell us what that is.
Jason Francia: He put the money in my shorts, because I pulled it out, and that's when my mom saw -- noticed that I had pulled money out of my shorts and she asked me where I got it from.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember which of the three occasions this was?
Jason Francia: I can't remember whether it was the first or the second.
Mr. Zonen: But this was back when you were young?
Jason Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Seven or eight?
Jason Francia: Seven or eight.
Mr. Zonen: You say in your shorts. What are we talking about? In a pocket?
Jason Francia: I don't think my mom put pockets on the shorts.
Mr. Zonen: That was a little more complicated?
Jason Francia: She's a good seamstress, but I don't think for shorts.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us as best you can recall where would that money have been.
Jason Francia: That would have been in my shorts.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
Jason Francia: It would have been in my shorts.
Mr. Zonen: In the inside?
Jason Francia: In the inside.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if the money was in your underwear?
Jason Francia: I don't. I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Mesereau asked you yesterday questions about whether you talked to your mother about what had happened, and if so, to what extent. Did you ever have a conversation with your mother where you told her that you were molested?
Jason Francia: I think I told her that I was molested in counseling, because then she shared that she was molested as well.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did you ever tell her the details of the molestation?
Jason Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: What had happened, how it happened, how often it happened, any of those types of details?
Jason Francia: I don't think so.
Mr. Zonen: To this day, have you ever?
Jason Francia: To this day. My wife found out on the stand.
Mr. Zonen: The details you had not yet told your wife?
Jason Francia: Right.
Mr. Zonen: Have you ever told anybody the details other than your therapist?
Jason Francia: My pastor.
Mr. Zonen: Your pastor?
Jason Francia: And I don't think I told him the details.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. I have no further questions.
The Court: Recross?
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. You may step down. He needs to move away.
Mr. Sneddon: Don't forget your jacket. Call Kris Kallman, Your Honor.
The Court: Come forward to the witness stand, please. When you get to the witness stand, remain standing. Face the clerk and raise your right hand.
Message: KRIS KALLMAN Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Kris Kallman: Yes.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Kris Kallman: My name is Kris, K-r-i-s, Kallman, K-a-l-l-m-a-n.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Good morning, Mr. Kallman.
Kris Kallman: Good morning, Mr. Sneddon.
Mr. Sneddon: You're an attorney?
Kris Kallman: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Licensed to practice in the State of California?
Kris Kallman: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: And what is your brief educational background to prepare you for the practice of law in the State of California?
Kris Kallman: Well, I graduated from Santa Barbara High School. Went to Santa Barbara City College. Graduated from Cal Poly San Luis Obispo. Went to Pepperdine University Law School.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you have a certain area of law that you specialize in?
Kris Kallman: Yes. I am a civil trial lawyer, and for the most part, I represent people that get injured due to the fault of another person or company.
Mr. Sneddon: How long have you been practicing law in the State of California?
Kris Kallman: 29 years.
Mr. Sneddon: And how long have you lived in Santa Barbara County?
Kris Kallman: My whole life, except when I was away at college.
Mr. Sneddon: And where do you live in Santa Barbara County?
Kris Kallman: I live in Santa Barbara, on the mesa, in the city.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, during the time that you've practiced law in Santa Barbara County, have you had associates that have practiced with you in your firm?
Kris Kallman: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Are you a sole practitioner?
Kris Kallman: Essentially. Although I currently have two lawyers that office with me and they act as “of counsel”. They're not employees, but they help me out on cases.
Mr. Sneddon: Are you familiar with an attorney by the name of Terry Cannon?
Kris Kallman: I sure am.
Mr. Sneddon: And how long have you known Mr. Cannon?
Kris Kallman: Oh, I've known Mr. Cannon for at least 20 years.
Mr. Sneddon: And at some point in time prior to today, was Mr. Cannon one of the people who was associated with you in the practice of -- your civil practice?
Kris Kallman: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And during what period of time was that; do you recall?
Kris Kallman: Well, the relevant period here would have been in the early to mid '90s.
Mr. Sneddon: And at that time Mr. Cannon was practicing with you?
Kris Kallman: He was associating with me on certain cases.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall where Mr. Cannon was residing at that particular point in time?
Kris Kallman: I believe he was living in Santa Barbara.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at some later time, did Mr. Cannon leave your association and take up the practice of law somewhere else?
Kris Kallman: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: To your knowledge, where was that?
Kris Kallman: In Oregon.
Mr. Sneddon: And then after that, did Mr. Cannon come back?
Kris Kallman: He came back to San Luis Obispo County, and then moved to San Diego County.
Mr. Sneddon: And at this particular point in time, do you know where Mr. Cannon is?
Kris Kallman: Not exactly this moment. But I happen to know that he bought a condominium here in Orcutt.
Mr. Sneddon: And is he, once again, associated with you in the practice of law?
Kris Kallman: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you have occasion to represent Jason Francia in some litigation?
Kris Kallman: He and his mother, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And can you tell us, did you ever prepare a lawsuit on behalf of Jason Francia?
Kris Kallman: We prepared a Complaint, which is a document that's the beginning of a lawsuit, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you say “we”, who's “we”?
Kris Kallman: Mr. Cannon and myself.
Mr. Sneddon: So Mr. Cannon was working with you on that particular case?
Kris Kallman: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: And after the preparation of that document -- well, with regard to that document, what were the allegations set forth in the proposed Complaint to be filed?
Kris Kallman: Well, it's been --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Hearsay; relevance.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Who was the individual that the Complaint was directed towards?
Kris Kallman: Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Sneddon: At some point in time, did you have contact with individuals who were representing Mr. Jackson over the proposed filing of the criminal -- of the civil complaint?
Kris Kallman: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And who did you make contact with?
Kris Kallman: Initially our contacts were with Johnnie Cochran and his associate, Carl Douglas.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall approximately when it was when you first made contact with Mr. -- or when contact was made between you and Mr. Cochran and Mr. Douglas?
Kris Kallman: It was either late '94 or early '95.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you, after your conversations with those individuals, file the civil lawsuit?
Kris Kallman: No.
Mr. Sneddon: At some point in time later, were you then dealing with other lawyers with regard to the proposed filing of that civil lawsuit?
Kris Kallman: Yes. At some point, Mr. Jackson's representation was assumed by a lawyer named Zia Modabber, and a lawyer named Howard Weitzman.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall approximately when it was that you then began contact with those particular individuals?
Kris Kallman: I believe it was in mid 1995.
Mr. Sneddon: And the purpose of those contacts?
Kris Kallman: Well, the --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Kris Kallman: The purpose of the contacts was that they knew that we had a Complaint that we were about to file in Santa Barbara County Superior Court, and they didn't want us to do that.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Hearsay; foundation.
The Court: The answer is stricken. Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: As a result of the conversations between these individuals, did you pursue your lawsuit?
Kris Kallman: Well, we never filed the lawsuit.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you reach an agreement, a settlement agreement?
Kris Kallman: Yes, we did.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you reach a settlement agreement in which Jason Francia received monetary compensation from Mr. Jackson?
Kris Kallman: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you receive -- did you reach an agreement in which Blanca Francia received monetary compensation from Mr. Jackson?
Kris Kallman: Yes, we did.
Mr. Sneddon: During the time that you were representing -- during the time that you had prepared a Complaint ready to be filed and you were in contact with attorneys representing Mr. Jackson, can you give the ladies and gentlemen of the jury an idea of how old Jason Francia was at that particular point in time?
Kris Kallman: Well, he was about 14 years old. He's 24 now, as I understand it, and we're talking about things that happened just about exactly ten years ago.
Mr. Sneddon: And in your position as a civil litigator, at the time that an individual is of minority, at the age of 14, how do you deal with representing a person like that?
Kris Kallman: Well, a child --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague; foundation; relevance.
The Court: Overruled. You may complete your answer.
Kris Kallman: A child, under California law, under the age of 18, is not permitted to enter into a contract. I suppose he or she could, but it wouldn't be enforceable. So the only way a child can act legally is through a guardian ad litem. And it's normally the parent and normally the mother.
Mr. Sneddon: Was that the case in this particular instance?
Kris Kallman: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, during the course of the time that you were involved in obtaining a settlement from Mr. Jackson on behalf of the Francias, did you deal personally with Jason at any time?
Kris Kallman: Yeah. Sure.
Mr. Sneddon: In what respect?
Kris Kallman: Well, I knew who he was, I met with him. I met with he and his mom. He was a teenaged boy, and a nice young man.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at some point in time was Jason required to sign some kind of documents in conjunction with the settlement?
Kris Kallman: Yes. When he turned 18, part of the condition was that he sign a confidentiality agreement.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to the confidentiality -- and to your knowledge, did he sign that?
Kris Kallman: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to the confidentiality agreement, did it have a provision that required notice to Mr. Jackson in the event that Jason Francia talked to anybody?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; move to strike.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Kris Kallman: I believe so, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what was the requirement notice in the confidentiality agreement with regard to notice to the defense?
Kris Kallman: I believe it's five days.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you at some point contacted by Mr. Zonen of our department with regard to interviewing your -- Jason Francia?
Kris Kallman: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And in that particular case, did you indicate to Mr. Zonen that you would have to do something before you could agree with that?
Kris Kallman: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what was that?
Kris Kallman: Well, I'd have to notify somebody on Mr. Jackson's legal staff that they wanted to talk to him.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you do that?
Kris Kallman: Yeah. Yes. Excuse me.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you then grant permission for Mr. Zonen to have a conversation with your -- with Jason Francia?
Kris Kallman: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, were you present during the conversations between Jason Francia and Mr. Zonen?
Kris Kallman: I don't think so. I think I was there, and then I think I had to go to another court or something like that. I don't remember being an integral part of any of those -- if there was more than one, I don't even know.
Mr. Sneddon: And I'm talking about the conversations that occurred after you gave notice to the defense in this case, or gave notice to Mr. Jackson. To your knowledge, was Mr. Cannon present?
Kris Kallman: I believe so. At least for part of it. Again, I'm not certain.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember when it was that you finally -- the year that you finally reached a settlement agreement with Mr. Jackson?
Kris Kallman: Yes. It's been a long time. But it was a big deal. And I do remember --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
The Court: The answer is stricken. Nonresponsive.
Mr. Sneddon: Just --
Kris Kallman: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what year was that, approximately?
Kris Kallman: It was either '95 or '96, I believe.
The Court: Counsel, we'll take our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I've just about completed my examination. But I would request if we could approach the bench for just one second. I don't want to run afoul of the Court.
The Court: All right. (Discussion held off the record at sidebar.)
The Court: (To the jury) All right. Knock it off. (Laughter.)
The Court: Okay. Counsel, you may proceed.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Mr. Kallman, I think I just have a couple questions left. I think where we were headed before the break was you told us the approximate year in which the case actually reached a settlement. And what I wanted to know was, after the settlement of the case, have you kept in contact with Jason over the years?
Kris Kallman: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And to your knowledge, has Mr. Cannon kept in contact with Jason over the years?
Kris Kallman: I believe so.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to the lawsuit that was contemplated against Mr. Jackson at the time, the basis of the -- of the nature of the representation of Jason Francia involved inappropriate sexual conduct against Jason by the defendant, Mr. Jackson?
Kris Kallman: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Nothing further, Your Honor.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, please. Your Honor.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning, Mr. Kallman.
Kris Kallman: Good morning.
Mr. Mesereau: My name is Thomas Mesereau and I speak for Mr. Jackson.
Kris Kallman: Pleasure to meet you.
Mr. Mesereau: I want to ask you some questions about the settlement agreement you referred to in response to the prosecutor's questions, okay? First of all, you had separate settlement agreements for the mother, Blanca Francia, and the son, Jason Francia, correct?
Kris Kallman: I believe so. I can tell you, I have not reviewed this material and it's been ten years, but I believe that was the case. Some of this I'm going to have to take your word for it.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, I can show you a copy if you need it.
Kris Kallman: I don't disbelieve that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. The settlement agreement with Blanca Francia was entered into approximately April 1st, 1996, right?
Kris Kallman: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you a copy of the agreement?
Kris Kallman: Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Kris Kallman: That's what it says.
Mr. Mesereau: The settlement agreement with Jason Francia was entered into approximately June 1st, 1998, right?
Kris Kallman: Don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you a copy of it?
Kris Kallman: Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Kris Kallman: That's what it says.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, that would suggest, wouldn't it, that the mother had agreed to get money for herself before there was any agreement for Jason to get money in a settlement, right?
Kris Kallman: No, it was all part of one global settlement.
Mr. Mesereau: Then why would there be a two-year difference between the execution of those settlement agreements?
Kris Kallman: Remember when I told the jury that a minor can't enter into a contract?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Kris Kallman: Jason wouldn't have been able to sign before he was 18. My guess is that's probably when he turned 18, and that's what Mr. Weitzman and Modabber wanted.
Mr. Mesereau: And then just for the jury's benefit, why would the mother sign in '96?
Kris Kallman: She was an adult. She could sign.
Mr. Mesereau: The point I'm making is that she had a separate settlement from her son.
Kris Kallman: Exactly. I mean -- yes. She got money.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. Okay. Now, the prosecutor asked you some questions about provisions in the settlement agreement, okay? And one of the issues that was carefully negotiated by the people representing Mr. Jackson was that he deny any wrongdoing in that agreement, right?
Kris Kallman: Again, the best evidence of that would be what's in the agreement. I don't remember what's in there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Well, let me -- the prosecutor read you a provision, asked you about it. Let me ask you about this: There was language in that agreement that said, “The parties acknowledge that Jackson has elected to settle the claims solely in view of the potential impact any litigation could have in the future on his reputation, earnings and potential income, and not because of any alleged wrongful conduct on his part”, right?
Kris Kallman: If you're asking me if that's in the document, I'll have to take your word for it. You don't need to show it to me. It sounds pretty standard to me.
Mr. Mesereau: The agreement further said -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. Both agreements, the one involving Jason and the one involving Blanca, his mother, both had language which said, “This agreement shall not, in any manner, be construed as an admission by Jackson that he has acted wrongfully with respect to Francia, Blanca, or any other person, or at all, or that Francia or Blanca have any rights whatsoever against Jackson or Jackson's releasees”. Sound familiar to you?
Kris Kallman: It sounds like standard language in virtually every release that I deal with. But, yes, it does sound familiar.
Mr. Mesereau: Actually, there's a whole separate paragraph entitled, “Denial of Claims by Mr. Jackson”, correct?
Kris Kallman: Don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you a copy?
Kris Kallman: It would.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Kris Kallman: It does refresh my recollection.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you recall that language being in both agreements?
Kris Kallman: I believe so, yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. In addition to the language that I have read, there's further language which says, “Jackson specifically disclaims any liability to, and denies any wrongful acts against, Francia, Blanca or any other person and may continue to do so publicly, to the extent reasonably necessary, to respond to any inquiries in this regard”. Right?
Kris Kallman: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: It said further, “The parties acknowledge that Jackson is a public figure, and that his name, image and likeness have commercial value and are an important element of his earning capacity”. Right?
Kris Kallman: That's true.
Mr. Mesereau: And that language was in both settlement agreements, the one involving Blanca Francia and the one involving Jason Francia, correct?
Kris Kallman: I don't remember that. I will take your word for it. You don't need to refresh my recollection. It sounds like it should be or would be.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, Mr. Kallman, provisions in which a settling party denies liability are fairly standard in settlement agreements, right?
Kris Kallman: True.
Mr. Mesereau: But the language that I just read to the jury is not standard language in a settlement agreement, is it?
Kris Kallman: This is not a standard case, or was not. And no, you're right. These were carefully drafted by a team of lawyers, and we agreed to the terms.
Mr. Mesereau: And the reason those terms are different is because Mr. Jackson is an unusual individual in terms of his need to preserve his reputation and public image so he can earn a living, right?
Mr. Sneddon: Calls for speculation on this. It wasn't drafted by him. No foundation.
Mr. Mesereau: I think it was drafted by this witness.
The Court: All right. I'll sustain a foundation.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: When you settled these matters - and I'm talking about matters involving Michael Jackson, Blanca Francia, and Jason Francia - you put in language involving denial of claims by Mr. Jackson that was not standard language in a typical settlement agreement, right?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to the question as lack of foundation; that he put the language in there.
The Court: Well, that was the foundation I was looking for. So I'll allow you to answer the question as long as you understand the limitations of your answer.
Kris Kallman: Well --
The Court: If you put the language in.
Kris Kallman: I didn't draft that agreement.
The Court: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Did lawyers from your office draft the agreement?
Kris Kallman: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Who drafted the agreement?
Kris Kallman: Somebody in Mr. Modabber's office, the Katten, Muchin, Zavis & Weitzman firm in Century City.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have any input into the language in the agreement?
Kris Kallman: Only to review it. And if there was language we found objectionable, we could strike it, I suppose.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Kris Kallman: But they wanted that in there, and I didn't find it objectionable.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you made a statement, I believe, in response to the prosecutor's questions, that if someone from law enforcement wanted to speak to your client, you had to first notify representatives of Mr. Jackson, true?
Kris Kallman: True.
Mr. Mesereau: That -- really, that language is not in that agreement, is it?
Kris Kallman: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Then why would you say it?
Kris Kallman: Because that's part -- in one of the agreements, I have to give notice to the defense team. And I've given notice once to Mr. Sanger. And then when I got subpoenaed on Friday, I gave notice to Mr. Modabber down in Los Angeles.
Mr. Mesereau: But the notice you're supposed to give to the defense team does not involve requests by law enforcement to speak to your client, does it?
Kris Kallman: I assume that anybody from law enforcement that wants to talk to my client, there was a requirement to notify somebody from the defense team.
Mr. Mesereau: Nowhere in those settlement agreements is there language to that effect, is there?
Kris Kallman: I have no idea.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as immaterial; irrelevant.
Mr. Mesereau: The prosecutor brought it up on direct, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection is overruled. And the answer came in as, “I have no idea”.
Mr. Mesereau: It would be against public policy for a civil litigator to put language in a settlement agreement precluding anyone from cooperating with law enforcement, wouldn't it?
Kris Kallman: In my opinion, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Lawyers are not allowed to have language like that in settlement agreements, right?
Kris Kallman: Wrong.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me?
Kris Kallman: No. It's a notice requirement. It's not a preclusion requirement.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last review the notice provisions in these agreements?
Kris Kallman: Probably in 1996 or 1997.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, let me ask you this question: Did you talk with Mr. Sneddon about what questions he was going to ask you before you testified today?
Kris Kallman: No. I mean, we talked, but it was very, very general and I don't think the conversation was more than five or ten minutes long.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. The notice provisions that you describe talk primarily about anyone who's suing Mr. Jackson or if he's contacted by the media, correct?
Kris Kallman: I don't -- not the notice provisions I'm thinking about. I think there's a specific provision -- it may not be in that agreement. Maybe it's in another agreement, but there's a provision that I'm supposed to contact either Johnnie Cochran or Zia Modabber or somebody on the defense team if there was a request to speak or interview my clients.
Mr. Mesereau: But never in the agreement did it refer to law enforcement, right?
Kris Kallman: That I don't remember. It's been a long time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, you answered some questions about Terry Cannon.
Kris Kallman: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: When did -- excuse me, you're currently associated with Mr. Cannon, correct?
Kris Kallman: He is “of counsel” to my law firm.
Mr. Mesereau: When did he become “of counsel” to your law firm.
Kris Kallman: He's been “of counsel” twice. Once about ten years ago, during this period, and then again just recently, within the last two months.
Mr. Mesereau: So he wasn't “of counsel” to your law firm in October, November and December of last year, right?
Kris Kallman: I don't believe so, but I can't be sure.
Mr. Mesereau: During October, November and December of last year, he was with the District Attorney's Office in San Diego, wasn't he?
Kris Kallman: Well, I know he recently retired from the San Diego D.A.'s Office. I don't know precisely when he retired, but you're right, it's been recent.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. No further questions, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: No questions, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down.
Kris Kallman: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Zonen: We'll call Blanca Francia to the stand.
The Court: Come to the front of the courtroom, please. When you get to the witness stand, remain standing. Face the clerk over here, and raise your right hand. Remain standing.
Bailiff Cortez: Remain standing.
The Court: Face the clerk here. Right over here.
Bailiff Cortez: Right over there, please.
Message: BLANCA FRANCIA Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Blanca Francia: Yes, I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Blanca Francia: Blanca Francia. B-l-a-n-c-a; F-r-a-n-c-i-a.
Bailiff Cortez: Ma'am, you need to move over here, please.
Blanca Francia: Oh.
Mr. Zonen: Would you like her to spell her name again?
The Court: Did the court reporter get the spelling?
The Reporter: Yes.
The Court: That's fine.
The Jury: (In unison) We didn't. (Laughter.)
The Court: Yes, please ask her to spell her name again.
Mr. Zonen: Could you please spell your name again?
Blanca Francia: B-l-a-n-c-a; F-r-a-n-c-i-a.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Miss Francia, good morning.
Blanca Francia: Good morning.
Mr. Zonen: Do you currently live in Santa Barbara County?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Up in the North County area?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: Are you the mother of Jason Francia?
Blanca Francia: Yes, I am.
Mr. Zonen: What kind of work are you currently doing?
Blanca Francia: Caregiving.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What we need to do, we have a problem here. And it's not just with you, a lot of witnesses. You have to be as close as you can get to the microphone so that you can be heard all the way to the back of the courtroom. Okay?
Blanca Francia: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Are you the mother of Jason Francia?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And what kind of work are you currently doing?
Blanca Francia: Caregiving.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
Blanca Francia: Caregiving.
Mr. Zonen: And what does that mean, a caregiver?
Blanca Francia: Taking care of elderly people. Disabled.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have a couple clients who you work for?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And are they disabled in some fashion?
Blanca Francia: Yes. I deal with one six years, almost six years, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Blanca Francia: And another one just recently, about a couple of months.
Mr. Zonen: And how long have you been doing this kind of work?
Blanca Francia: On and off, I've been doing it for about 15 years.
Mr. Zonen: And prior to that, what kind of work did you do?
Blanca Francia: Housekeeping. Housecleaning.
Mr. Zonen: And for what period of time did you do that work?
Blanca Francia: Since I came to the country.
Mr. Zonen: When did you come to the United States?
Blanca Francia: 1975.
Mr. Zonen: And from what country did you come from?
Blanca Francia: El Salvador.
Mr. Zonen: You have been to -- in this country continuously since 1975?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Have you been back to El Salvador to visit at all?
Blanca Francia: A couple of times.
Mr. Zonen: Your English, how did you learn English? Did you go to school?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: How did you learn English?
Blanca Francia: Reading, and listening to people, and that's --
Mr. Zonen: How old were you when you came to this country?
Blanca Francia: About 21.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Do you know Mr. Jackson, Michael Jackson?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you see him in this courtroom?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Would you indicate where he is sitting, please?
Blanca Francia: He's sitting right there.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, could the court record reflect that the witness has identified the defendant?
The Court: All right.
Mr. Zonen: How do you know Mr. Jackson?
Blanca Francia: I work -- work about five years.
Mr. Zonen: When did you begin working for Mr. Jackson?
Blanca Francia: 1986.
Mr. Zonen: And where did you begin working for Mr. Jackson, at what location?
Blanca Francia: Havenhurst. Encino, California.
Mr. Zonen: Havenhurst is the name of the street?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And was there a house on that street --
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- where he lived? All right. What were you doing for Mr. Jackson at the Havenhurst residence?
Blanca Francia: I was hired to be his personal housekeeper.
Mr. Zonen: Were there other members of the Jackson family living at the Havenhurst residence?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Can you tell us who they were?
Blanca Francia: At that time Janet and LaToya, and his father and mother.
Mr. Zonen: Would you describe the Havenhurst residence for us, just briefly? A large home?
Blanca Francia: Their whole house? Yeah. He has his separate quarters in the house. But it was in the same house.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Was it a large home?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And his quarters, were you responsible for just his quarters or did you clean in the whole house?
Blanca Francia: Well, yes, just his quarters. His place. But eventually when he will go out on tour, I will stay at the house and help the household.
Mr. Zonen: You would clean the rest of the house as well?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: Did Mr. Jackson ever have an additional residence other than the residence on Havenhurst?
Blanca Francia: After I was there for about a year, I think, or less than a year, he got another one. Like -- kind of an apartment, suite. Called it “The Hideout”.
Mr. Zonen: Where was that; do you know?
Blanca Francia: I know it's on Wilshire. And I don't know the other street.
Mr. Zonen: And describe that location for us, if you would.
Blanca Francia: What do you mean?
Mr. Zonen: Tell us what it was like, his apartment.
Blanca Francia: Oh.
Mr. Zonen: Or his residence. How many rooms in it; do you know? Do you recall?
Blanca Francia: Three. It had a master bedroom, and two other rooms, bedrooms.
Mr. Zonen: Did it have a living room?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I assume a kitchen?
Blanca Francia: Kitchen, and another little room.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. At least a couple bathrooms?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: You don't recall --
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: -- how many bathrooms?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: It's okay. Do you recall for what period of time you cleaned that residence?
Blanca Francia: For about a year.
Mr. Zonen: Was he living at that residence during that time, Mr. Jackson?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, he totally move his --
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
Blanca Francia: He totally move from Encino to that hide -- to that place. He move his office to -- to near that location.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Was there a bed at that residence?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Never?
Blanca Francia: Never.
Mr. Zonen: The whole time that you were cleaning there?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did you go to a different location after the hideout? Was there yet another residence?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, he was in process to get a ranch.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Blanca Francia: In Los Olivos.
Mr. Zonen: And was that Neverland?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Was that the ranch that he actually did purchase?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did he move to that ranch?
Blanca Francia: Eventually, yeah. But he was on and off. They sent me over here before he moved in. I mean --
Mr. Zonen: I'm not sure I understood that, “They sent me over here before he moved in”. Who is “they”, first of all?
Blanca Francia: Well, they arrange, Mr. Jackson and Bill Bray and one of the secretaries.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Bill Bray was who?
Blanca Francia: His personal assistant I guess.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And you said, “They sent me here”. Where is “here”?
Blanca Francia: Santa Maria.
Mr. Zonen: Santa Maria. So did you actually move to Santa Maria?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. They pay me to move here.
Mr. Zonen: And did you move with your child?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Is Jason your only child?
Blanca Francia: My only son.
Mr. Zonen: Did Jason grow up with his father at all?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Has he had contact with his father at all?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: How old was Jason when you moved to Santa Maria?
Blanca Francia: I guess about nine.
Mr. Zonen: About nine years old?
Blanca Francia: Eight or nine, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did you continue working for Mr. Jackson after you moved to Santa Maria?
Blanca Francia: Excuse me?
Mr. Zonen: Did you continuing to work for Mr. Jackson --
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- after you moved to Santa Maria?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And was that at Neverland?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What were your responsibilities at Neverland? What did you do for Mr. Jackson?
Blanca Francia: To clean his room.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
Blanca Francia: To clean his bedroom. And taking care of his clothes and his personal stuff.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Blanca Francia: His -- all his -- you know, whatever he needed. And to clean up and arrange all his clothes, press them, iron them, and, you know, everything.
Mr. Zonen: What was your schedule at Neverland? How often did you work there?
Blanca Francia: In the beginning, I think I was just -- he was there, I will come, you know, and work for three days, whatever time he will stay there, and then, you know, not to be there for another two days. But eventually he move to -- like to 9:00 to 5:00.
Mr. Zonen: Five days a week?
Blanca Francia: Five days a week. Six days.
Mr. Zonen: Six days? Did you ever work more than 9:00 to 5:00?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Your hours, times, would they vary different days?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Christmastime and -- you know, whatever time they needed me, because he was there.
Mr. Zonen: Were there occasions that you would work late?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And you say six days a week. Was that common?
Blanca Francia: Was that what?
Mr. Zonen: Was that a common event, that you would work six days a week?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. During that time, did you ever bring Jason with you to work? And by “this time”, I'm referring to at Neverland.
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did you ever bring Jason to work with you at the Havenhurst residence in Encino?
Blanca Francia: Yes, it was.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever bring Jason to work with you at the hideout on Wilshire Boulevard?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And why did you do that?
Blanca Francia: Well, the first time I didn't know that I was allowed to do it. But Mr. Jackson asked me to -- to bring him.
Mr. Zonen: You said the first time. Where was that?
Blanca Francia: At the Encino house.
Mr. Zonen: At the Encino house?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did he say why?
Blanca Francia: He just told me to bring him.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And did you bring him on occasion?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. From then on, he was there a lot of times.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. How often would you bring him to the residence at Encino?
Blanca Francia: Probably every weekend. And probably twice a month, then, different -- differently. I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: Was that schedule more or less at the hideout? Did you bring him to the hideout as often? More often?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: Less often? What?
Blanca Francia: Not a lot of times, because he was in school, so probably on Saturday or Sundays.
Mr. Zonen: Did you continue cleaning at the hideout even after Mr. Jackson moved to Neverland in '88?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: How often?
Blanca Francia: Probably every week. Sometimes twice a week.
Mr. Zonen: At Neverland, what were your specific responsibilities? What were your obligations? What did you do at Neverland?
Blanca Francia: Do you mean for him?
Mr. Zonen: Yes, for Mr. Jackson. Yes.
Blanca Francia: Like I said, taking care of his clothes, his room.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Blanca Francia: And right after he leave the room, I will have to clean it right away, because sometime he will stay there, you know, he'll come out, and then he'll go back in right away.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Were your responsibilities beyond his room as well? In other words, did you clean the rest of the house?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever clean other buildings at Neverland?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: The arcade?
Blanca Francia: The arcade, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: The theater?
Blanca Francia: The theater.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Most of the time where did you work?
Blanca Francia: In the house.
Mr. Zonen: Were there other maids at Neverland --
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- who were -- there were other maids at Neverland?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Yes, all right. At any given time, how many maids were working at Neverland at any given time?
Blanca Francia: Maybe about six.
Mr. Zonen: Were there others who had responsibility for cleaning Mr. Jackson's bedroom?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: You were the only one?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a key?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Is that the only way you got in?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Was there a combination lock at any point?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Not while you were there? Is that a key that you carried around with you?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Would you just let yourself in?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: How would you announce your presence? How would you let Mr. Jackson know you were coming in, if, in fact, he was there?
Blanca Francia: I'll knock.
Mr. Zonen: Uh-huh. Now, could you describe the suite that is his bedroom? It's actually more than one room; is that right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. It's two rooms. One downstairs and one upstairs.
Mr. Zonen: And is there a hallway that goes into it?
Blanca Francia: Closet.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
Blanca Francia: A closet.
Mr. Zonen: There's a closet, okay.
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: When you go --
Blanca Francia: A walk-in closet.
Mr. Zonen: When you go into his suite, do you go through a door that is locked?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Is there any way of securing his bedroom suite?
Blanca Francia: Well, his bedroom suite, with a key --
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Blanca Francia: -- that I would have.
Mr. Zonen: Where is that door, the one that you unlock with the key that you carry?
Blanca Francia: In the hallway.
Mr. Zonen: In the hallway?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: So you unlock that door and you go through that door. And where do you find yourself at that point?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Where are you? As soon as you walk through that door, the door that you unlock, where are you at that point? Are you in a room or a hallway?
Blanca Francia: In the bedroom.
Mr. Zonen: In the bedroom, all right.
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: Was there at that time some kind of an alarm or a bell?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, that's before you get to the door.
Mr. Zonen: Before you get to the door?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, that's in the hallway.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And you would announce your presence when you came in?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Were there ever occasions that you would announce your presence and Mr. Jackson would be in the room?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Were there ever occasions where you would announce your presence and he wasn't there?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did you try to go to his room when he wasn't there to clean?
Blanca Francia: When he was there? When he wasn't?
Mr. Zonen: Yeah, what did you try to do, what was your preference? To clean while he was there, or to clean while he wasn't there?
Blanca Francia: I'll -- well, sometimes he'll be there and I'll be cleaning.
Mr. Zonen: Uh-huh.
Blanca Francia: It didn't matter.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Where was his bed, incidentally, at that time? Where did he sleep?
Blanca Francia: As soon as you came into the bedroom, that's his bed.
Mr. Zonen: So his bed was downstairs?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was there another bed upstairs?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Which bed did he sleep in?
Blanca Francia: Downstairs.
Mr. Zonen: And you would make --
Blanca Francia: Most of the --
Mr. Zonen: And you would make that bed; is that right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did he ever have visitors over at his home?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Visitors who stayed?
Blanca Francia: Excuse me?
Mr. Zonen: Visitors who stayed for periods of time?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know a person by the name of Wade Robson?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Who was Wade Robson?
Blanca Francia: He was a young kid, a young little boy.
Mr. Zonen: How old was Wade Robson when you first met him?
Blanca Francia: Probably eight. Seven or eight.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know where Mr. Robson -- where Mr. Robson - an eight-year-old - where Wade Robson came from?
Blanca Francia: Yes. From a different country. I mean, from another country. Switzer --
Mr. Zonen: Do you know which country?
Blanca Francia: No, I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: But you recall that it was from a different country?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Was it an English-speaking country or a country with a different language?
Blanca Francia: Different language.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever talk to Wade Robson?
Blanca Francia: A little bit.
Mr. Zonen: Was he there with family?
Blanca Francia: With his mother.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember --
Blanca Francia: I think he has a little sister. I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did Wade Robson --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. The prosecutor didn't let the witness finish.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry, I thought she had.
Mr. Zonen: Please go ahead, if you hadn't finished that answer.
Blanca Francia: Excuse me?
Mr. Zonen: I think you said he has a little sister?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. I don't remember, tell you the truth.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have a recollection of a sister?
Blanca Francia: I -- you know, I don't remember, tell you the truth.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember his mother?
Blanca Francia: His mother, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Where did she stay when they were there?
Blanca Francia: In the guesthouse outside. They call them the guest quarters.
Mr. Zonen: The guest quarters?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember if Wade Robson's father was there?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Where did Wade Robson stay?
Blanca Francia: In Mr. Jackson's room.
Mr. Zonen: All right. In the bedroom?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: For what period of time was Wade Robson visiting Mr. Jackson?
Blanca Francia: Weeks.
Mr. Zonen: Weeks?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: When he would come, would he stay -- what's the longest that he would stay at any one time?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Well, let me ask a couple preliminary questions.
Mr. Zonen: You've already told us that you cleaned Mr. Jackson's room.
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Were you the only one who cleaned Mr. Jackson's room?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you go into Mr. Jackson's room daily, every single day, when you were working?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Were you working at that period of time, as you said, at least five and sometimes six days a week?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Would you be the first one in his room in the morning?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Would you have to fix his bed?
Blanca Francia: There were times when nobody knew that he was going to be there, and they call me at home, telling me, “He's here, and so you have to come and clean up”.
Mr. Zonen: Did you see Wade Robson there?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you see him there for days at a time?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you see where he was staying?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Where was he staying?
Blanca Francia: In Mr. Jackson's room.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you see Wade Robson's belongings?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: What kind of belongings did he have?
Blanca Francia: He had clothes, little suitcase, kids' suitcase, and his clothes in there.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Would you wash Michael Jackson's clothing as part of your job?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did you wash Wade Robson's clothing?
Blanca Francia: As well, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Always?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Whenever he was there?
Blanca Francia: Yes. I find them on the floor, so I'll -- I'll wash them.
Mr. Zonen: And his clothing was found on the floor in where?
Blanca Francia: Different places.
Mr. Zonen: Whose room?
Blanca Francia: Mr. Jackson's room.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Would you find Mr. Jackson's clothing there as well?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And that was your responsibility, your job, to simply gather up the clothing and launder it?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And then return it to his room?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; move to strike.
The Court: It's leading; sustained. Stricken.
Mr. Zonen: Was there a place that -- where you kept Wade Robson's clothing after you laundered it?
Blanca Francia: No, I put them together with his clothes and in his case, his little suitcase.
Mr. Zonen: Now, tell us how often Wade Robson came to visit. I have two questions and we'll do one at a time. Let me tell you both of them. How often he came, and how often -- how long he stayed each time he came. So let's start with the first one. How often did he come, Wade Robson?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Blanca Francia: How often did he come?
Mr. Zonen: How often did he come to Neverland to visit Mr. Jackson?
Blanca Francia: Uh --
Mr. Mesereau: Vague as to time; objection.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Well, tell me when he first came. You said he was eight years old. Do you remember what year that was? Excuse me.
Blanca Francia: Probably --
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry.
Blanca Francia: '99.
Mr. Zonen: '99 or '89?
Blanca Francia: '89, I mean.
Mr. Zonen: You quit working there when?
Blanca Francia: In '90 -- '91, I think. '91.
Mr. Zonen: '91. All right. So you think it might have been in 1989 that Mr. Robson visited?
Blanca Francia: '89.
Mr. Zonen: Young Wade Robson?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And were you the one who was working for Mr. Jackson exclusively in his bedroom during that time?
Blanca Francia: Yes. One occasion I left and somebody else got in charge. The manager --
Mr. Zonen: Uh-huh.
Blanca Francia: -- got in charge of cleaning, you know, when I left for vacation.
Mr. Zonen: And for how long was that?
Blanca Francia: Probably about two weeks.
Mr. Zonen: All right. But for the rest of the time, you were there cleaning?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And during that period of time when Wade Robson was there, were you able to see him?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Were you able to do his laundry?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Were you able to see him daily? Did you ever actually see him in Mr. Jackson's bedroom?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Daily?
Blanca Francia: (Nods head up and down.)
Mr. Zonen: Daily?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Now, you said that he first came, you think, in 1999?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh yes.
Mr. Zonen: How many separate times? When was the last time he came? In other words, how long after the first visit was the final visit, to your knowledge?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember. It was, I guess, about a year, less than a year before I left.
Mr. Zonen: So were the visits, then, over a period of time of one year?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how many separate times he came during that one-year period to visit?
Blanca Francia: He'll be there for weeks, and then he'll leave and come back after two weeks.
Mr. Zonen: And stay for how long?
Blanca Francia: For another week.
Mr. Zonen: Did he generally stay for at least a week?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. -- Wade Robson was there for quite some time?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And during that time, are you aware of him staying anyplace other than Michael Jackson's bedroom?
Blanca Francia: No. He'll stay there as far as I know.
Mr. Zonen: Now, your obligation, of course, was not just to clean up, but to do the linens?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: The sheets off the beds; is that right?
Blanca Francia: Change.
Mr. Zonen: You said that there were two beds --
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: -- at least? Were there more than two beds in his suite or just two?
Blanca Francia: No, just two.
Mr. Zonen: Did you make the beds every single day?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: During the time that Wade Robson was there, how many beds did you make? One or more than one?
Blanca Francia: Just that one.
Mr. Zonen: The one that was Mr. Jackson's bed?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. The one upstairs was rarely used.
Mr. Zonen: All of the visits when Wade Robson came, was his mother there for all of the visits?
Blanca Francia: Sometimes.
Mr. Zonen: Were there some times that she was not there?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: But Wade Robson came by himself?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how?
Blanca Francia: Mr. Jackson will bring him.
Mr. Zonen: He would bring him?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And during that entire year of visits, did you ever see Wade Robson's father?
Blanca Francia: You know, that I don't remember. I --
Mr. Zonen: You don't have a picture of him in your mind?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; move to strike.
The Court: Sustained. It's stricken.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have a picture of him in your mind?
Blanca Francia: Of the little boy?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: The objection is overruled. But she's asked for clarification.
Mr. Zonen: Let me change the question, if I can. I'll withdraw the question.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Zonen: Can you describe Wade Robson's father to us?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: And I think that you said that there might have been a sister. Do you recall a sister?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember. So many kids there, I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Was there ever an occasion, to your recollection, where any other child stayed with Mr. Jackson in his room while Wade Robson was there?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Only Wade Robson?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Was there ever an occasion where you walked into his room and you saw some kind of a separate sleeping arrangement, what you believe to be a separate sleeping arrangement for Wade Robson?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague; leading; foundation.
The Court: I'll sustain vague.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever see a sleeping bag on the floor?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever see anything that causes you to believe that Wade Robson was sleeping someplace other than in Michael Jackson's bed?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Was there an occasion that you went into Michael Jackson's room and came upon Michael Jackson and Wade Robson?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Blanca Francia: Did I what?
Mr. Zonen: Come into Michael Jackson's room and discover that Michael Jackson was there with Wade Robson.
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Was there an occasion when you went in and they were in the shower?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever come in and find them in a situation that made you uncomfortable?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: Do you understand what I'm asking?
Blanca Francia: That I was what?
Mr. Zonen: Where you were uncomfortable. You found them and you were uncomfortable.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Blanca Francia: Well, I came one time and -- in the bedroom.
Mr. Zonen: Uh-huh.
Blanca Francia: And first I thought they were playing.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
Blanca Francia: And --
Mr. Mesereau: Nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: All right. The question was “yes” or “no”.
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Tell us what you heard when you first walked into the room.
Blanca Francia: Laughing.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Blanca Francia: And playing; like playing around.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. What did you do?
Blanca Francia: I came in, and I -- first I thought that they were playing in the bathtub, Jacuzzi, and I didn't see them. And then I thought they were outside, playing outside the house; I mean, in his garden. And I walked and they were in the shower.
Mr. Zonen: You have to explain to us a little bit the layout here.
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: Is there a Jacuzzi inside his house, inside his bedroom?
Blanca Francia: Inside his bedroom, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: So explain that for us. Describe to us what you get to first. The shower? The Jacuzzi? Explain how it's laid out.
Blanca Francia: First, you get to the bed. And then you get in the bathroom, they call it the ladies' bathroom, and there's a big Jacuzzi there.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Was there a door that goes to that bathroom?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Was the door open or was the door closed?
Blanca Francia: No, the door is open. It was open.
Mr. Zonen: And what did -- did you look into that door?
Blanca Francia: Which door?
Mr. Zonen: The door that goes to the bathroom.
Blanca Francia: Well, I have to go through there.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: What do you mean, you have to go through there?
Blanca Francia: To get to the bathroom.
Mr. Zonen: And did you do that?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: What did you see?
Blanca Francia: And then I was going to walk outside to the garden, but then --
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Blanca Francia: -- on my way going, I peek, and it was in the shower.
Mr. Zonen: And what did you see?
Blanca Francia: And I hear this playing around. That's where he was taking a shower, I guess.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Blanca Francia: With little Wade.
Mr. Zonen: What did you see? Tell me what you saw.
Blanca Francia: I -- what I saw, I -- just some clothes on the floor.
Mr. Zonen: You saw clothes on the floor in the bathroom or in the bedroom?
Blanca Francia: No, in the shower.
Mr. Zonen: In --
Blanca Francia: By the shower.
Mr. Zonen: By the shower. What clothing did you see on the floor?
Blanca Francia: Underwear.
Mr. Zonen: Underwear?
Blanca Francia: (Nods head up and down.)
Mr. Zonen: More than one pair?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: How many pair did you see?
Blanca Francia: Two.
Mr. Zonen: Two pair of underwear?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did you recognize the underwear?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And how did you happen to recognize the underwear?
Blanca Francia: The -- Mr. Jackson's, I knew they were white. And the little boy, they were colored.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Blanca Francia: They were little underwear.
Mr. Zonen: Can you describe the little boy's underwear?
Blanca Francia: They were little green underwear.
Mr. Zonen: Green underwear?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh. Had like a neon color.
Mr. Zonen: Neon green?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Just in case he lost them? You did his underwear previously, didn't you? You had washed his underwear previously?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know Wade Robson's underwear?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Blanca Francia: They have little, you know, characters, like Spiderman and things like that.
Mr. Zonen: Child's?
Blanca Francia: Child's.
Mr. Zonen: A small child's underwear?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And Mr. Jackson's underwear you washed regularly as well?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And his underwear was what type?
Blanca Francia: I don't know. I think they call them briefs.
Mr. Zonen: And what color?
Blanca Francia: White.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. You say you found two pair. Where were they?
Blanca Francia: On the floor.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And on the floor in the bathroom?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Now, how far is the underwear from either the Jacuzzi or the shower?
Blanca Francia: Well, they're right by -- they were right by the door, by the shower.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Was water running?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Excuse me. And the water was running in the -- in the shower?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you -- did you know that, that the water was running, when you first came into his bedroom suite?
Blanca Francia: Well, I heard the radio, and then eventually I hear the water going.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry, I heard the first part.
Blanca Francia: The radio. I heard the radio.
Mr. Zonen: You heard the radio?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, playing. And then eventually I hear the water going.
Mr. Zonen: And then you heard the water?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, because I hear two people, you know, playing.
Mr. Zonen: And you say you heard two people playing. What were the sounds that you heard?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did you hear two voices?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Leading; sustained.
Mr. Zonen: For what period of time did you hear sounds?
Blanca Francia: Maybe about a minute.
Mr. Zonen: Did you recognize the voices that you heard?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Whose voices were they?
Blanca Francia: Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: Did you recognize the second voice?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Whose voice was that?
Blanca Francia: The little kid, the --
Mr. Zonen: Wade?
Blanca Francia: Wade's, little boy.
Mr. Zonen: When you finally reached a spot where you could see in, was your vision obscured by anything?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; assumes facts not in evidence.
Mr. Zonen: Withdraw the evidence -- withdraw the question.
Mr. Zonen: In that bathroom, is there a shower curtain?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: What is there in that bathroom?
Blanca Francia: A glass door.
Mr. Zonen: A glass door. Is it a glass door that is fogged or is it a glass door that is clear?
Blanca Francia: It's clear, but at that time it was smoky.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Smoky?
Blanca Francia: Cloudy.
Mr. Zonen: Cloudy? From the shower?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: All right. When there's no shower going, can you see through the glass?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: On this occasion when the shower was going, could you see through the glass?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Could you see any figure at all? What could you see?
Mr. Mesereau: Asked and answered.
Blanca Francia: I saw a figure.
Mr. Zonen: Hold on.
The Court: Just a minute. The objection is overruled. “I saw a figure” is the answer. Go ahead.
Mr. Zonen: Did you see more than one figure?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you recognize either of the figures that you saw?
Blanca Francia: Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Blanca Francia: And the little kid.
Mr. Zonen: Was one figure larger than the other?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Was the second figure the size of Wade Robson?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What did you do at that point?
Blanca Francia: That he was going to get mad, or --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
Mr. Zonen: What did you do at the time that you saw Mr. Jackson and Wade Robson in the shower? What did you do then?
Blanca Francia: I was going to talk to them, but then I thought, “No, I better not”, so I just went back.
Mr. Zonen: Did you leave the room?
Blanca Francia: I -- yeah, I left the room.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell Mr. Jackson that you had been in the room?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you back into the room at a later time?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, to clean the room.
Mr. Zonen: Miss Francia, was there ever an occasion where you saw your son Jason with Mr. Jackson and you were concerned?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead.
Blanca Francia: I was concerned for my son, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Can you tell us when that happened?
Blanca Francia: The first time, it was -- I think it was in Encino.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Blanca Francia: That I remember that I walked in, because I had the key to that room, too.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
Blanca Francia: And I walked in --
The Court: Wait. Just a moment, please. All right. No question was pending, so I'll strike her answer.
Mr. Zonen: All right. It was in Encino. Do you remember when that was?
Blanca Francia: Do you mean the date?
Mr. Zonen: Or the year.
Blanca Francia: Probably '86. I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. How old was Jason?
Blanca Francia: Probably about seven or eight, probably. Seven.
Mr. Zonen: Seven. And what did you see that concerned you?
Blanca Francia: Well, I saw little things before that with other kids, and --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive.
Mr. Zonen: Just tell us what you saw --
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Just tell us what you saw with Jason.
Blanca Francia: Well, he was sitting on his lap.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And what concerned you?
Blanca Francia: And I walked in, and he was sitting on his lap, and Mr. Jackson was just reclining, reclining to the back.
Mr. Zonen: Reclining?
Blanca Francia: Reclining to the back.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Blanca Francia: And having my son in his lap.
Mr. Zonen: And where was Jason positioned on his lap?
Blanca Francia: His legs.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And what did you do?
Blanca Francia: I just told my son to get out. And he was -- I remember he say, “No, I'm fine”.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
Mr. Zonen: You told your son to get out?
The Court: Just a moment. Stricken.
Mr. Zonen: You told your son to get out?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did he do so?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: What did you do then?
Blanca Francia: I think I push him, and -- oh, he was -- some kind of -- reading a book or coloring. And Mr. Jackson say, “I want him to read”, or “I'm reading a story”, something like that.
Mr. Zonen: Did you take your son off of his lap?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was there another occasion that you were concerned?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: You can answer.
Blanca Francia: Yeah, I remember one time, too, at the Encino house that I want my son to stay downstairs, because he -- he will come and -- Mr. Jackson will come and, you know, probably wanted to be by himself, and I said, “You stay here”, and I --
Mr. Zonen: You said that to who?
Blanca Francia: To my son, you know, to “Stay here. Stay here, because Michael is here, and”, you know, “he probably want to be by himself”. And then he find out -- I guess Mr. Jackson find out that my son was there, and so he took him upstairs. And I got mad, because my -- I told my son not to go with him, but I got concerned because my son --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
The Court: I'll strike the last sentence.
Mr. Zonen: Did you go look for your son?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: When did you next see your son?
Blanca Francia: What do you mean?
Mr. Zonen: On that day, on that occasion.
Blanca Francia: Oh. Well, I -- I did my cleaning, or whatever I was doing, and after, he came -- he came down.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Let me ask you about the hideout. At the hideout, you had mentioned that there wasn't a bed. What did Mr. Jackson sleep in?
Blanca Francia: He sleeps in a sleeping bag.
Mr. Zonen: All right. The whole time that he was at the hideout?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. There was no bed.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
Blanca Francia: There was no bed there.
Mr. Zonen: Was there ever an occasion that you and your son stayed the night at the hideout?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: You always left at the end of the day?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And did you have an apartment that was someplace in Los Angeles at that time?
Blanca Francia: He?
Mr. Zonen: You.
Blanca Francia: Oh, yeah, I did.
Mr. Zonen: So during the time that you were going to the hideout regularly --
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: -- you had an apartment. And I think that you had testified that even after you moved to Santa Maria, there were still occasions that you went back to clean at the hideout?
Blanca Francia: Many times, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know for approximately how long after you moved to Santa Maria?
Blanca Francia: Probably a year.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Now, what did he -- I asked you what he slept on, and you said a sleeping bag. Describe the sleeping bag for us. What kind of a sleeping bag was it?
Blanca Francia: A regular sleeping bag that you sleep on.
Mr. Zonen: Sleeping bag for one person? For two people? How big?
Blanca Francia: A regular one.
Mr. Zonen: Just a regular sleeping bag?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Was that sleeping bag always open, or was it rolled up?
Blanca Francia: It was open.
Mr. Zonen: Always?
Blanca Francia: Well, when I made it, I would try to make it like a bed, you know.
Mr. Zonen: Were there any blankets on the sleeping bag or under the sleeping bag?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, there were blankets.
Mr. Zonen: Which? On the sleeping bag or --
Blanca Francia: On the sleeping bag, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was the sleeping bag simply on the floor?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Was there carpet on the floor?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever see Jason on or in the sleeping bag?
Blanca Francia: One time.
Mr. Zonen: Was Mr. Jackson there?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Were they on the sleeping bag or were they in the sleeping bag?
Blanca Francia: They were on the sleeping bag, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: On top of the sleeping bag?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Could you see their body -- bodies, both of them?
Blanca Francia: Not Mr. Jackson's.
Mr. Zonen: Why not?
Blanca Francia: Because it was covered.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. So the sleeping bag covered Mr. Jackson?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: How about Jason? Where was Jason?
Blanca Francia: He was in the sleeping bag, too.
Mr. Zonen: He was in the sleeping bag. How were they positioned relative to each other? Do you know what I mean? Were they facing each other? Were they facing away from each other? Do you recall?
Blanca Francia: I remember this time he was this -- on this side, and my son was on this side. And I got there about three or four times, and one time he was -- my son was --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive.
The Court: It's kind of hard to tell. Maybe you could start with another question.
Mr. Zonen: Yes, I can.
Mr. Zonen: I asked you initially how they were positioned. In other words, were they facing each other? Were they facing away from each other? Do you recall? When you saw them the first time.
Blanca Francia: The first time, my son was just laying there.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Blanca Francia: But on one time, because I was cooking for Mr. Jackson, I was doing some lunch, or snacks, or something --
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
Blanca Francia: I was cooking some snacks.
Mr. Zonen: Snacks. Okay.
Blanca Francia: Popcorn.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: Are we still talking about the same event, the same day?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. So when --
Blanca Francia: Hmm?
Mr. Zonen: When you first saw your son in the sleeping bag with Mr. Jackson, did you say anything to your son at all when you first saw him in the sleeping bag?
Blanca Francia: I told him to come up, outside, and eat, because I wanted to feed him.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And did he?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What did you do?
Blanca Francia: He say, “I want to stay here”.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. What did you do?
Blanca Francia: And -- well, I got mad. And I said, you know, “You got to get out to the kitchen”, and he didn't wanted to.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Were you speaking with him in English or in Spanish at that time; do you recall?
Blanca Francia: No, I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know what language -- what language do you speak with your son now?
Blanca Francia: Spanish.
Mr. Zonen: You speak Spanish?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: You've always spoke Spanish with him?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: His wife does or does not speak Spanish?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: In her presence, what do you speak?
Blanca Francia: English.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. But he grew up speaking Spanish?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And he's very fluent in Spanish?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: When you asked him to come out to go eat, in what language was that?
Blanca Francia: I think I said it in Spanish. But then I want Mr. Jackson to understand what I was telling him to do, and so I guess I said it in Spanish and English. I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: So you're not certain at this point?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did he get out of the sleeping bag?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: What did you then do? Did you leave the room or --
Blanca Francia: I left the room and I proceed to do my stuff and --
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And what happened then?
Blanca Francia: Then I went back and -- and then he was eating, but he was -- oh, I took something to eat to him.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. When you came back out, was he still in the sleeping bag with Mr. Jackson?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: What were they doing in the sleeping bag? I don't mean in the sleeping bag, but what were they doing in the room?
Blanca Francia: They were watching T.V.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: A time frame?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: At the time that you first came into that room, was the television on?
Blanca Francia: On, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember approximately what time of the day it was?
Blanca Francia: Probably was about 2:00, 1:00 or 2:00 in the afternoon.
Mr. Zonen: Was the room light or was the room dark?
Blanca Francia: It was dark. It gets really dark.
Mr. Zonen: But this was about 1:00 or 2:00 in the afternoon?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Were there shades on the windows?
Blanca Francia: Draperies, curtains.
Mr. Zonen: Draperies. And were they drawn? Were they closed?
Blanca Francia: Closed.
Mr. Zonen: So the light was not in?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember what they were watching on television?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know what Jason used to like to watch at that time?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; relevance.
Blanca Francia: At that time --
Mr. Zonen: I'll withdraw the question.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Zonen: How old was Jason, to your recollection, at that time, as best you can recall?
Blanca Francia: Probably like eight. Probably eight. That was --
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry, go ahead.
Blanca Francia: -- before we move here to Santa -- to -- before he moved here to Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: It was before he moved to Neverland?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And Jason was born on, if I'm not mistaken, May 30, 1980?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Is that his birth date?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: When you moved to Neverland in 1988, he would have been about eight years old?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And you believe this was before?
Blanca Francia: Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Do you know if Mr. Jackson ever gave Jason money?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know on how many occasions?
Blanca Francia: That I remember, because it was -- to me, it was a lot of money for a little kid. At the hideout he gave him some money.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how much money he gave him?
Blanca Francia: From what I remember, it was two hundred-dollar bills.
Mr. Zonen: Two 100-dollar bills?
Blanca Francia: Two 100-dollar bills, yes.
Mr. Zonen: When did you first see that money?
Blanca Francia: After -- what happened was that I left the key at his apartment. And we were walking to get -- take the bus home, back home. My car key, I left it there. And we were going to walk to -- to the bus stop.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Were you taking the bus back and forth?
Blanca Francia: No, I was driving. But I left the key, my car key there, and I didn't want to go back and knock at the door, because --
Mr. Zonen: You didn't have your key?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, Mr. Jackson wouldn't open the door.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Blanca Francia: So I remember we were walking to the bus stop, and he say -- my son told me he has money --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
Blanca Francia: -- in his pocket.
Mr. Mesereau: Nonresponsive.
The Court: Just a moment. True, there's no question pending. It's nonresponsive.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Mr. Zonen: Where were you when you first saw the money?
Blanca Francia: At the bus stop.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did he give you the money, your son?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. How did you see the money?
Blanca Francia: Well, he say he had lots of money and that it was a secret.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. What did you say?
Blanca Francia: And I say, “What do you mean, a secret? How much money?” But I thought it was maybe two dollars.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: Spontaneous declaration, Your Honor.
The Court: I'm going to allow the answer to the question of, “What did you say?” which I think is the objection you were making.
Mr. Mesereau: Has to do with third-party statements, Your Honor.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry.
The Court: I'm going to ask you to rephrase the question. The question you last asked where the objection came was, “And what did you say?” And she did say what she said. But then she was going to say something else.
Mr. Zonen: Yes. Thank you.
Mr. Zonen: What did your son say to you in response to your statement?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: That's a spontaneous declaration.
The Court: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: That's what I originally meant.
The Court: I will allow it on that basis.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Zonen: What did your son say?
Blanca Francia: That he has the money; that it was a secret; he wasn't going to tell me.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Blanca Francia: But at this point I thought it was maybe two dollars or a dollar.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ask to see it?
Blanca Francia: And I say, “I want to see it”. And he say, “No, because Michael told me that it's for me and not to tell you”. But like I say, I thought it was two dollars. I say, “How much is it?” And I pull it out of his pocket.
Mr. Zonen: It was in his pocket?
Blanca Francia: It was in his pocket. He said he put --
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember what he was wearing?
Blanca Francia: Pants.
Mr. Zonen: You believe it was pants?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. He says, “He put it in my pocket. Don't take it out”. So I pull it out, and I said, “$200?”
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did you reach into his pocket?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did you retrieve it?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: What was it?
Blanca Francia: It was two 100-dollar bills.
Mr. Zonen: Were there ever other occasions that you were aware of where Mr. Jackson gave your son money?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Was that the only occasion that you recall?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever see your son with money on other occasions?
Blanca Francia: I'll give him allowances. And, you know, he'll keep it -- you know, a dollar or two.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know who Macaulay Culkin is?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Who is Macaulay Culkin?
Blanca Francia: The little kid from the movies.
Mr. Zonen: Yes. Did you ever see Macaulay Culkin --
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- personally? Where did you see him?
Blanca Francia: At the Neverland. At the ranch.
Mr. Zonen: Did he visit Neverland?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: How often did he visit Neverland?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember. But it was a few times when I was there.
Mr. Zonen: More than once?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Over what period of time, from the first time to the last time?
Blanca Francia: Probably six months.
Mr. Zonen: Were you working that entire time?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Were you working in the same job you've already described for us, as Mr. Jackson's personal maid?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Were you cleaning his room?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And doing his laundry?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: When Mr. Culkin came -- well, it was Macaulay Culkin. How old was he when you first saw him, approximately?
Blanca Francia: I think about eight or nine. Probably eight.
Mr. Zonen: Was this before or after Wade Robson was visiting?
Blanca Francia: After.
Mr. Zonen: Did they ever visit at the same time?
Blanca Francia: No. Not that I can remember.
Mr. Zonen: Did Wade Robson continue to visit during the time that Macaulay Culkin was coming?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know where Macaulay Culkin stayed when he came to Neverland?
Blanca Francia: With Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: Did Macaulay Culkin come with any other family members that you recall?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, I remember him with his father and mother.
Mr. Zonen: Father and mother?
Blanca Francia: And the other kids.
Mr. Zonen: Other --
Blanca Francia: Brothers and sisters.
Mr. Zonen: Other siblings?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how many siblings he had, whether they were boys or girls?
Blanca Francia: No, I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if it was more than one other sibling?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. More than one.
Mr. Zonen: Did he have at least one brother and one sister at least?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know the total number of brothers and sisters?
Blanca Francia: No. No. Probably five. I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: I asked you where Macaulay Culkin stayed, and you said with Mr. Jackson. How do you know that?
Blanca Francia: Because I'll go to his bedroom and clean up after.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever see Macaulay Culkin in Mr. Jackson's bedroom?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Were his possessions there in the bedroom?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: That you don't recall?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recall if you ever washed his clothing as you did Wade Robson's?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Would you have washed his clothing if his clothing was someplace other than his bedroom?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; calls for speculation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Was it your responsibility to wash clothing from rooms other than Mr. Jackson's bedroom?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: If guests did not stay with Mr. Jackson, where would they have stayed?
Blanca Francia: In the guest rooms. They call them the outside guest rooms. You know, they're like four -- four guest rooms outside.
Mr. Zonen: Could I have those photographs, please? Oh. Thank you. I'm sorry, did you say something?
Mr. Mesereau: I'm going to object as cumulative.
Mr. Zonen: Oh, okay. All right.
Mr. Zonen: And I think that you said it was for a number of months that Macaulay Culkin stayed?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Weeks.
Mr. Zonen: I don't mean continuously. But what do you think was the longest period that you ever saw him there during that few-month period of time?
Blanca Francia: About a week.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Do you know if he always came with his family?
Blanca Francia: Not always.
Mr. Zonen: How else did he come?
Blanca Francia: How often?
Mr. Zonen: How else, if he was not with his family? Was he with other people?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did he come by himself?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have a recollection of how many times Macaulay Culkin came to visit Neverland by himself?
Blanca Francia: Maybe I remember about two times.
Mr. Zonen: All right. How old was Jason during the time that Macaulay Culkin was there?
Blanca Francia: At that time he was probably already ten.
Mr. Zonen: Jason was older than Macaulay Culkin?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: About how much older?
Blanca Francia: Probably a year or two. I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: During the time that Macaulay Culkin stayed in Mr. Jackson's bedroom, do you know if other members of his family also stayed in the bedroom with them?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, I think they did.
Mr. Zonen: On every occasion?
Blanca Francia: Not all the time.
Mr. Zonen: Are you aware --
Blanca Francia: When --
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry, go ahead.
Blanca Francia: When he was by himself, he was there by himself with Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know of any occasions when Macaulay Culkin came to visit when he did not stay in Mr. Jackson's room?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: And on those occasions when Macaulay Culkin stayed in Mr. Jackson's room, do you know if there was ever a separate sleeping arrangement, in other words, a separate bed or a separate sleeping bag that you would have to clean up?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Excuse me, I'm sorry. Why did you leave Neverland, your employment at Neverland?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; relevance.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did you leave your employment at Neverland?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did you leave of your own volition?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember when it was you left Neverland?
Blanca Francia: May, I think.
Mr. Zonen: Of what year?
Blanca Francia: '91. '90 or '91. '91, I think.
Mr. Zonen: May of '91?
Blanca Francia: '91.
Mr. Zonen: All right. So you would have been employed by Mr. Jackson for a period of about five years?
Blanca Francia: Five years, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Now, May of '91 your son would be turning 11; is that right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if you left before his 11th birthday?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh. About.
Mr. Zonen: Did your son have any more association with Michael Jackson after you?
Blanca Francia: After?
Mr. Zonen: Yes, after you left.
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever go back to Neverland after you left?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever visit with Mr. Jackson after you left?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Were you contacted by law enforcement at some time after you left Neverland, your employment at Neverland, for an interview?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. 1994 or '93. I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: '93 or '94? So it was already some time after you left Neverland; is that right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: At least a year, and probably two?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
Mr. Zonen: Let me withdraw the question.
Mr. Zonen: How long after you left your employment at Neverland was it that law enforcement contacted you?
Blanca Francia: About two and a half years.
Mr. Zonen: Did you contact them or did they contact you?
Blanca Francia: They came to me.
Mr. Zonen: At the time they contacted you, did you know whether or not there was an investigation going on involving Mr. Jackson?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Yes. I was -- kind of.
Mr. Zonen: Were you expecting to be contacted?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Calls for speculation; relevance; foundation.
Mr. Zonen: Goes to her state of mind.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did it come as a surprise to you when you were contacted?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; foundation; leading.
The Court: And I'm going to back up a minute and change my ruling on the question, “Were you expecting to be contacted?” She may answer that “yes” or “no”. I'll overrule the last objection.
Mr. Zonen: Did you understand that? You may answer the question, “Were you expecting to be contacted?”
Blanca Francia: Yes and no.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ultimately give an interview with the sheriff's office?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time were you called to give a deposition? Were you subpoenaed to give a deposition?
Blanca Francia: I was subpoenaed, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, do you know who it was who subpoenaed you to give a deposition?
Blanca Francia: Mr. Feldman.
Mr. Zonen: Was that Larry Feldman?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know who Larry Feldman represented at that time?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Another little boy.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
Blanca Francia: Another little boy.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know that person's name?
Blanca Francia: The -- the little boy?
Mr. Zonen: Yes, that he represented.
Blanca Francia: At that time I didn't know. Now -- now I hear --
Mr. Zonen: What do you know the name to be?
Blanca Francia: Chandler. Chandler. Something like that. But I don't know. I don't know the first name.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know that child, Mr. Chandler?
Blanca Francia: No. No.
Mr. Zonen: “Mr”. You don't know how old he was? You don't know how old he was?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know his first name?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Was this a child you were ever introduced to during the time that you were at Neverland?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: And tell us what a deposition is. Having gone through one, what is it?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
Mr. Zonen: Well, let me withdraw that.
Mr. Zonen: Did you, in fact, go through a deposition?
Blanca Francia: Did I went through --
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a deposition? Did they take your deposition?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And did you, in fact, give testimony in that deposition?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Now, I asked you who it was who subpoenaed you, and you said it was Larry Feldman.
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: Were there other lawyers in the room asking you questions as well?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Who were the other lawyers? Do you remember any of their names?
Blanca Francia: I remember Johnnie Cochran, and there were about five or six.
Mr. Zonen: About five or six lawyers?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: All in the room at one time?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And was Johnnie Cochran asking you questions?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Were other lawyers asking you questions as well?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember. But I think there was one “Waysman” or “Wiseman”.
Mr. Zonen: Weitzman? Perhaps Howard Weitzman?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember his last name. I mean --
Mr. Zonen: Do you know on which side Mr. Weitzman was?
Blanca Francia: With Mr. Cochran.
Mr. Zonen: He was with Mr. Cochran?
Blanca Francia: They were the two together, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Who did Mr. Cochran and Mr. Weitzman represent?
Blanca Francia: Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Was Mr. Jackson present during that deposition?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Was he ever there during the deposition at any time?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did that deposition go longer than one day?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: How many days did it go?
Blanca Francia: Two days.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how many hours each day you were deposed?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if there were other lawyers sitting with Mr. Feldman, Larry Feldman, in other words, on his side, other than Mr. Feldman?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Was Mr. Feldman the only one asking you questions from that side?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Have you ever reviewed the transcript of that deposition?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Even back then?
Blanca Francia: Not that I remember.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember what year it was, of that deposition?
Blanca Francia: '94, I think. Or '95.
Mr. Zonen: Was it before or after you had your first interview with law enforcement? Do you recall?
Blanca Francia: After.
Mr. Zonen: It was after? Do you remember approximately how long after?
Blanca Francia: No, I don't remember the date or --
Mr. Zonen: Miss Francia, when you had this deposition that went on for two days, and you say that there were lawyers, a number of them in the room, did you have a lawyer with you?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Had you retained a lawyer at that time?
Blanca Francia: Not at that time, no.
Mr. Zonen: Did you give answers to questions that were put to you at that time.
Blanca Francia: Did I answer?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you -- did they explain to you that a deposition is the same thing as testifying?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Just a moment.
Mr. Zonen: I'll withdraw the question.
The Court: Overrruled.
Mr. Zonen: I won't withdraw the question.
The Court: You may answer.
Mr. Zonen: Did they explain to you that a deposition was the same thing as testifying?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have to raise your hand to take an oath to tell the truth?
Blanca Francia: Oh, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And you did do that?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did they ask you questions about -- questions similar to the questions I've asked you so far since you've been on the witness stand?
Blanca Francia: (Nods head up and down.)
Mr. Zonen: You have to answer out loud, if you would, please.
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did they ask you about Wade Robson?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did they ask you if in fact you had seen them in the shower together?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember the answers that you gave to those questions?
Blanca Francia: Kind of.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell one of the attorneys that you did not see Wade Robson in the shower?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, I probably did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Was that accurate?
Blanca Francia: Well, at that time I guess I was tired and nervous, I guess.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell them that you believed Wade Robson was in the shower?
Blanca Francia: Yes, I told them that.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell them about the underwear?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell them about hearing the voices?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell them about the music?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you do an interview for Hard Copy?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What is Hard Copy?
Blanca Francia: A program.
Mr. Zonen: A program?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: A program on what? On television?
Blanca Francia: On television, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Was that a program that you had seen before that interview?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Had you ever watched Hard Copy before?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know what kind of -- did you know -- before you were on it, did you know what kind of a program it was?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Were you -- did somebody contact you from Hard Copy?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And do you remember who that was who contacted you?
Blanca Francia: That -- the lady who interview me.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Do you happen to remember her name?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: What was her name?
Blanca Francia: Diane Dimond.
Mr. Zonen: Diane Dimond. Did you discuss with Miss Dimond what it was she wanted to talk with you about?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, we kind of talk about it.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did you agree to go on television?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Was there some discussion with Miss Dimond about whether or not you would be paid or compensated for appearing on television?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. My friend and I went together.
Mr. Zonen: You went with a friend?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Who was your friend?
Blanca Francia: One of -- one of the workers at Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: One of the workers at Neverland?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: What was her name?
Blanca Francia: Evangeline.
Mr. Zonen: Evangeline?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And what did she do at Neverland?
Blanca Francia: She was a housekeeper and a cook.
Mr. Zonen: A housekeeper and a cook?
Blanca Francia: And a cook, yeah. And she helped the cook.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And you were talking with Diane Dimond with Evangeline?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Why is that? Why was Evangeline there, or Vangie, was why she there?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: I'm not sure what you're looking for, foundation.
Mr. Mesereau: And speculation.
The Court: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: I'll withdraw that, then. I understand that objection.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ask Evangeline to be there with you?
Blanca Francia: She was the one who contact, I believe, Diane Dimond.
Mr. Zonen: Did she -- she's the one who introduced you to Diane Dimond?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, she was the one who told me, you know, that she can get everything arranged.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. That she could arrange the interview?
Blanca Francia: The interview, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And payment as well?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. She say, “I'll help you”.
Mr. Zonen: What did you understand the interview to be about? What did they want to ask you about?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Calls for speculation.
Mr. Zonen: Withdraw the question.
Mr. Zonen: What was your belief that you were going to be telling them?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading.
Blanca Francia: About --
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Zonen: What was your belief that you would be telling them?
Blanca Francia: About me working there.
Mr. Zonen: Working where?
Blanca Francia: At Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did you think they would be asking you questions about Michael Jackson?
Blanca Francia: No. I mean, that -- not the way they were asking me.
Mr. Zonen: How much money did they represent from Hard Copy -- how much money did they represent that they would give you for an interview?
Blanca Francia: How much money they gave me?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Blanca Francia: $20,000.
Mr. Zonen: $20,000.
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And what were you going to do for $20,000? What were you going to say in this interview for $20,000?
Blanca Francia: Well, I -- I thought that it was going to be just talking about, you know, how it was working for him and how he was.
Mr. Zonen: Did that seem, to you, an unusually large amount of money?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: How much money were you making a year at that time?
Blanca Francia: Less than $20,000.
Mr. Zonen: Less than $20,000?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, probably around 20.
The Court: All right. We'll take our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Zonen: When we left off, I was asking some questions about the interview with Hard Copy. Did that interview finally take place?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you actually watch it on television when it was screened?
Blanca Francia: No.
The Bailiff: Can you turn your microphone on?
Mr. Zonen: I asked you about the interview with Hard Copy. You finally did that interview, did you not?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you watch it on television when it was screened?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Have you ever watched it?
Blanca Francia: No. I watch a little bit, you know, when I --
Mr. Zonen: Did you receive $20,000?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Do you know if your friend Evangeline got any money?
Blanca Francia: She didn't get any money from them, no. I gave her some money.
Mr. Zonen: Was that interview -- was that interview with Hard Copy before or after your interview with the sheriff's detectives?
Blanca Francia: After.
Mr. Zonen: Was it before or after your deposition with Larry Feldman and Johnnie Cochran?
Blanca Francia: Oh, before.
Mr. Zonen: It was before the deposition?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember being asked some questions about the Hard Copy --
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- interview during that deposition?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did Mr. Jackson ever have a nickname for your son, for Jason, that he used?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever hear Mr. Jackson call your son by a name other than Jason, his real name?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What name was that?
Blanca Francia: “Rubba”.
Mr. Zonen: “Rubba”, R-u-b-b-a, do you think?
Blanca Francia: I think.
Mr. Zonen: Is that what it sounds like?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever hear him call other kids “Rubba”?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did he call Wade Robson “Rubba”?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did he call Macaulay Culkin “Rubba”?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever receive any gifts from Mr. Jackson?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What kind of gifts did you receive from him?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember. They were a lot.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember any of them?
Blanca Francia: He told me to get whatever I want, you know, like promotional things that he'll get from the companies, or toys for my son.
Mr. Zonen: Do you mean if he had them in his possession?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. He will buy little stuff for me, too.
Mr. Zonen: And he would give them to you?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did he ever give you any furniture?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: What kind of furniture?
Blanca Francia: I remember one time he -- he had a table in the attic, and he say he doesn't want it there. And I asked him if I could take it, and he said, “Yeah, sure. Take it”.
Mr. Zonen: The attic where?
Blanca Francia: The attic at Havenhurst.
Mr. Zonen: At Havenhurst?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: How long ago was that?
Blanca Francia: When I first started there, to work there.
Mr. Zonen: So '86?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Any other things that you can remember that he gave you over the years?
Blanca Francia: Toys for my son.
Mr. Zonen: Toys for your son? Did he ever give you money?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: You don't remember if he gave you money, or how much, or how often?
Blanca Francia: How often? No, I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: All right. When you had the deposition with Johnnie Cochran, did he ask you if you ever took something from --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; misstates the evidence. There were other lawyers involved.
The Court: Overruled. You may --
Mr. Zonen: When you had the deposition -- It was overruled, Your Honor?
The Court: It was overruled. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: When you had the deposition with Johnnie Cochran, did he or any other lawyer representing Michael Jackson ask you if you took something from Michael Jackson's room?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: Did they ask you about a watch?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember the watch?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a watch from Michael Jackson?
Blanca Francia: Did he have it?
Mr. Zonen: No. Did he ever give you a watch?
Blanca Francia: I got it from his room.
Mr. Zonen: What kind of a watch are we talking about?
Blanca Francia: It was a toy watch. You know, like I think it was from one of his commercials or something.
Mr. Zonen: Did you --
Blanca Francia: That I had it, and he look at it, and he say, “Oh, that's nice”. And I say, “Yeah, I got it from your room”. And he didn't -- I told one of the housekeepers that I -- “Oh, look what I got from his room”. But I guess I used to get stuff from his room and --
Mr. Zonen: Are you talking about promotional things?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Things like that.
Mr. Zonen: What is a promotional item? What do you mean by that?
Blanca Francia: Like when he make a commercial. I think this watch was from Captain Eo.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
Blanca Francia: I think it was from one of his videos.
Mr. Zonen: Did he have his name on it?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did it have his picture on it?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What was that watch worth, do you think?
Blanca Francia: About $10, probably.
Mr. Zonen: At some time were you contacted by an attorney or did you retain an attorney?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; compound.
Mr. Zonen: I'll withdraw the question.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever retain an attorney?
Blanca Francia: I don't understand.
Mr. Zonen: Oh. Did you ever hire a lawyer?
Blanca Francia: Oh. Did I personally went to a lawyer and say -- no.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Do you know Terry Cannon?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know Kris Kallman?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know them to be lawyers?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did either of those two lawyers represent you?
Blanca Francia: Yes, at one time.
Mr. Zonen: Did they represent Jason?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: How did that happen? How did you come into contact with these two lawyers?
Blanca Francia: Well, since I -- I was felt like --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; 352.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did Jason get subpoenaed to appear at a deposition?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: How old was Jason at that time?
Mr. Zonen: We forgot the tags. Would you mark the next two exhibits in order, please?
Blanca Francia: Probably about 12.
Mr. Zonen: Did he actually get a subpoena to appear at a deposition?
Blanca Francia: No, they told me that they were going to subpoena him.
Mr. Zonen: Was that at the end of your deposition?
Blanca Francia: Yes, they told me they want him and myself at another office. Not there, but another office. Mr. Cochran told me.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Were you concerned about Jason giving a deposition?
Blanca Francia: At that time, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did you think he --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; move to strike.
The Court: Overruled. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: What were your concerns about Jason giving a deposition?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. 352; foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: You can answer the question. What was your concern?
Blanca Francia: That he -- being so young, that he was going to be embarrassed and teased by other kids.
Mr. Zonen: All right. At some point in time, did you talk with -- let me change that. At some point in time, did you agree to file a lawsuit against Michael Jackson?
Blanca Francia: Not at that time.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if there was some kind of a settlement with Michael Jackson's attorneys?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you receive -- and I'm not asking you how much, but did you receive compensation?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you receive payment?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did Jason also receive payment?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: When did he receive his payment?
Blanca Francia: I believe it was his 18th birthday.
Mr. Zonen: His 18th birthday? I had asked you a question about the watch from his room. Did Mr. Jackson ever talk to you about being able to take things if you wanted to?
Blanca Francia: He never told me that.
Mr. Zonen: Did he say anything like that?
Blanca Francia: Oh. No.
Mr. Zonen: There was no conversation about that?
Blanca Francia: He told me that sometimes people gave him things, and that he'd display it, and then -- you know, and then he would like to get rid of it.
Mr. Zonen: Did you show him the watch?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. At one time I was wearing it, one of his jackets, and he say -- and he told me that it was his jacket. And I say, “Yeah, I was cold”. And he say, “Oh, that's okay”.
Mr. Zonen: May I approach the witness, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I have two photographs previously shown to counsel. I'd like to show you these two exhibits, if I can. Exhibit No. 781 and Exhibit No. 782. And do you see the numbers here? This is 781 and that's 782. I'm going to put them both in front of you.
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: And then I'll go back. 781, would you pick that one up, please, and tell us what that photograph is? Take a look at it.
Blanca Francia: That was one of his school pictures.
Mr. Zonen: And who is “he”?
Blanca Francia: My son.
Mr. Zonen: Your son Jason. How old was Jason in that photograph?
Blanca Francia: I would say about ten.
Mr. Zonen: About ten years old? Do you remember that photograph being taken?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: But you do recognize him?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Is that an accurate photograph of Jason when he was about ten years old?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Look at the another one now, please, I think 782. And what is that a photo of?
Blanca Francia: My son and I.
Mr. Zonen: All right. The two of you together?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Is that photograph dated?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Whose handwriting is that?
Blanca Francia: Mine.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And what is the date on that?
Blanca Francia: 1994.
Mr. Zonen: And your son was -- what was the month on that?
Blanca Francia: The month is March.
Mr. Zonen: March? It's written in Spanish, is it not?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: But it's March 19 --
Blanca Francia: '94.
Mr. Zonen: '94. And how old was he at that time?
Blanca Francia: About 14.
Mr. Zonen: All right. He would turn 14 in May of '94?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: So he was 13 at the time; is that right?
Blanca Francia: 13.
Mr. Zonen: Is that photograph an accurate photograph of your son at that time?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, I would move both of those exhibits into evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: They're admitted.
Mr. Zonen: I'd ask to publish them at this time.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Zonen: We'll start with 781. Could we dim the lights, if we could? And could you take a look over your shoulder and tell us, is that the photograph that you identified?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And how old was he at that time again?
Blanca Francia: About ten.
Mr. Zonen: About ten. And then the second photograph, 782. And he was at that point 13?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Was that about the time that he was being interviewed by law enforcement?
Blanca Francia: Yes, I think.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. I have no further questions.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, please, Your Honor. If I may take a second, Your Honor, just to set up.
The Court: Yes, you may.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Ma'am, I'll say good morning, but I think it's afternoon. Okay? My name is Tom Mesereau and I speak for Mr. Jackson, okay? We met for the first time at the break, right? We've never spoken before that, right?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, if anything -- if anything I ask you is unclear, please don't answer it, okay? Just say you don't understand. Okay?
Blanca Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: And if you don't understand, I'll try and rephrase it --
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: -- to make it more understandable, okay? If you're not sure about what I'm asking, just don't answer. Just make sure it's clear in your mind what I'm asking for, okay? You know I'm on his side, okay?
Blanca Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Jackson, all right? Now, you began working for Mr. Jackson in 1986; is that correct?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know approximately what month that was?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you stopped working for Mr. Jackson in approximately 1991, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never worked for him since you stopped working in 1991, right?
Blanca Francia: No. I never went back.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you testified that in the apartment owned by Mr. Jackson that you referred to as “The Hideout”, there was no furniture, right?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there any bed in there at all?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And approximately when were you cleaning that apartment as part of your work?
Blanca Francia: Do you mean how long would it take me to clean or --
Mr. Mesereau: No, no, let me rephrase it. During what period of time do you remember you were going to that apartment and cleaning it?
Blanca Francia: Probably a year. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: And would you go to clean that apartment when Mr. Jackson was not there?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember Mr. Jackson going on what was called a “Bad” tour; do you remember that?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember Mr. Jackson produced an album and a videotape called “Bad”?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you remember he was traveling on that tour from approximately September of 1987 to January of 1989?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And during that period of time he was often out of the country, wasn't he?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And he told you about where he was going, didn't he?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: He told you he was going to Japan, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Australia, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And a lot of cities in America, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: New York, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Indianapolis? Went to Texas? Georgia?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as beyond the scope of her knowledge; lack of foundation.
Blanca Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: I think she's answering she did know, Your Honor.
Blanca Francia: He told me he was on tour, but --
Mr. Zonen: There's an objection.
Blanca Francia: You know --
The Court: The only one she said she didn't know were the last two, so I'll overrule the objection.
Mr. Mesereau: So you knew he traveled to Italy on that tour, correct?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object on lack of foundation or based on hearsay.
Mr. Mesereau: State of mind, Your Honor. I'll be happy to rephrase it if the Court wants.
The Court: The objection is overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know that he traveled to Italy on that tour as well?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Austria?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: And England?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember he went to a lot of countries --
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- on that tour? And he told you that, didn't he?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that tour lasted almost a year and a half, didn't it?
Blanca Francia: Not really. I didn't stop seeing him for a year and a half.
Mr. Mesereau: But he was out of the country much of the time, wasn't he?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And he was out of Los Angeles much of the time?
Blanca Francia: Out of -- yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you didn't often see him -- excuse me. Let me rephrase that. Do you remember him staying overnight at the hideout apartment?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And he didn't like to invite other people to that apartment, right?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as speculative; lack of foundation.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether or not Mr. Jackson liked to keep his presence at that apartment private?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; speculative.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Blanca Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. But you didn't see him invite lots of people to that apartment, did he?
Blanca Francia: No, I didn't see many people.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you were the only one that would clean that apartment, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you used to help Mr. Jackson prepare when he was leaving town for the “Bad” tour?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you used to do for Mr. Jackson to help him?
Blanca Francia: Pack his stuff, his makeup, his clothes, and shine his shoes.
Mr. Mesereau: And he went on approximately 123 concerts during that period, didn't he?
Blanca Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as lack of foundation.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know how many --
The Court: She said, “I don't know”, so next question.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you used to clean the home at Havenhurst in Encino -- okay? Havenhurst is a street, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was where Michael Jackson's parents lived --
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- right? Did other family members live there at the time you were cleaning that house?
Blanca Francia: I think Janet was still there. And LaToya.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So to your knowledge, at the time you cleaned that house, his parents, Janet, LaToya and Michael were living there, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And would you go there every day?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And were there other people besides you that cleaned the house?
Blanca Francia: Not at that time. They didn't have a housekeeper. I mean, they have one, but it quit after about two months.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you appear to be the primary housecleaner?
Blanca Francia: Well, while Mr. Jackson was on tour, I end up staying, cleaning the house too.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So when he was out of town, you would still go there to work, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, would you bring Jason there when --
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- when Mr. Jackson was out of town?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And where would Jason typically be when you worked at the house while Mr. Jackson was out of town; do you know?
Blanca Francia: Outside in the arcade room. At the house.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And would you see Mr. Jackson's parents when you used to clean the house?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Would you see Janet?
Blanca Francia: Sometimes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how about LaToya?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, sometimes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what areas of the house did you used to clean?
Blanca Francia: The whole house.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Every day?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. If there was nothing else to do.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, how long did you work -- excuse me. Let me rephrase that. For how long a period of time did you clean the house at Havenhurst?
Blanca Francia: While he was on tour, I guess. I don't remember. But it was many months, because Bill Bray told me that at least it's going to be about six months that he was going to be out of -- out of the country, and either I be laid off or work at the house.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did there come a point in time when you stopped cleaning the house on Havenhurst?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that, if you remember?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was it 1986, do you think?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: 1987?
Blanca Francia: 1987, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you think it was 1987?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you stopped cleaning the house at Havenhurst, you kept working for Mr. Jackson, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you do for Mr. Jackson after you stopped cleaning the house on Havenhurst?
Blanca Francia: Well, went back to my same routine. Cleaning his room and mainly being there. Even if I didn't have anything to do, he wanted me in his room.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And which room are you talking about now?
Blanca Francia: His bedroom.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. His bedroom now?
Blanca Francia: In Encino.
Mr. Mesereau: In Encino, okay. Okay. So Mr. Jackson would leave town, but always wanted you to still come to the house and do your work, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said that Mr. Bray told you something about you might lose your work?
Blanca Francia: No, no, no. He told me that I either be laid off or -- well, probably it's the same thing, or work at the house.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. When you stopped working at the house on Havenhurst, what were you doing then for Mr. Jackson?
Blanca Francia: When I stopped working at the Havenhurst -- do you mean at the house?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. You kept working for Mr. Jackson, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what were you doing then?
Blanca Francia: The same thing I was hired to do for him. Pick up his clothes.
Mr. Mesereau: And where were you doing that?
Blanca Francia: Cleaning his room. At the Havenhurst.
Mr. Mesereau: No, no, after you stopped working at Havenhurst.
Blanca Francia: Oh.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: You worked at Havenhurst for a while, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And then at some point you stopped cleaning Havenhurst, didn't you; is that right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, but we still live there -- I mean, he still live there at the Havenhurst.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I'm sorry. Maybe I'm confusing you. There was a point in time when you didn't clean Havenhurst anymore; is that right?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that, do you think?
Blanca Francia: No, I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You did work at Neverland at one point, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, that was back after about three years.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you worked at Neverland, were you still working at Havenhurst?
Blanca Francia: When I still working --
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry?
Blanca Francia: -- at Neverland?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. Let me rephrase the question. When you were working for Mr. Jackson at Neverland - okay? - were you still doing work at the home on Havenhurst?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You were working full time at Neverland then, right?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: No?
Blanca Francia: I would go to the hideout.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Blanca Francia: And sometime he will tell me to go to Havenhurst to get stuff, or retrieve something, or --
Mr. Mesereau: So when you were living at Neverland and working at Neverland, you still would sometimes go to Havenhurst, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes. Sometimes.
Mr. Mesereau: But most of the time you did your work at Neverland, right?
Blanca Francia: Neverland and the hideout.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, Mr. Jackson was very generous to you, wasn't he?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: He gave you a couple of televisions; is that right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would also ask him from time to time if you could take something, and he would often say “Yes”, right?
Blanca Francia: (Nods head up and down.)
Mr. Mesereau: What are some of the things that you asked him that you'd like to have?
Blanca Francia: Knickknacks. And clothes. He gave me a couple of jackets from his tour, I think. I don't remember. It was -- there were a lot of stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he give you any cash himself?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't he give you approximately $5,000 total at one point?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Wouldn't he give you 500 or 300 or $200 at a time?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember saying that in your deposition with Mr. Feldman?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. I probably did, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: So let me ask you what you remember.
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember Mr. Jackson giving you 500 or 300 or $200 at a time?
Blanca Francia: He probably did, but at this time I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember saying in your deposition that, in total, he may have given you $5,000?
Blanca Francia: I probably did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Does that sound accurate to you?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, probably, I did. It wasn't that much, probably, but I don't remember how much he gave me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But would you ask him for cash sometimes?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Would he just volunteer and give it to you?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember that, you know. I don't -- I don't -- I think so, but I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I'm probably not being clear. I'm asking why Mr. Jackson gave you money. Would you ask him for money once in a while?
Blanca Francia: I think I did -- I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you do remember him giving you money from time to time, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you're not sure of the total, right?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did he give you money from time to time during the entire period that you worked for him?
Blanca Francia: Someone -- yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you don't recall him ever saying “No” if you ever told him you needed some money, did he?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. He always was generous with you with money, wasn't he?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. Now, your deposition was taken in 1993, right? Do you remember that?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Blanca Francia: But I think it was '94. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you the transcript with a date on it? Would that help you remember?
Blanca Francia: I mean, I'll read it and -- I know that it was that, but I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: If you saw the transcript, might that help you remember? Would you like to see it?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. I mean, you can put whatever that you want to and I will say probably.
Mr. Mesereau: No, I don't want to do that. Would it help refresh your recollection --
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: -- if I just show you the date on the deposition?
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, I'd be prepared to stipulate to the two dates of the transcript.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Sure.
Mr. Zonen: And the first date is December 15, 1993.
Mr. Sneddon: Can't hear you.
Mr. Zonen: The first date --
Mr. Sneddon: Turn it on.
Mr. Zonen: We make this complicated, don't we? The first date is December 15, 1993. The date of the second day of the deposition was January 11, 1994. I would so stipulate.
Mr. Mesereau: So stipulated.
The Court: All right. I'll approve that stipulation.
Blanca Francia: I do remember '94. But I don't remember the dates.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Do you remember in your deposition saying you had never seen Mr. Jackson touch anyone improperly?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, I --
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember saying you never saw him touch anyone?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: You did say that, didn't you?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And in that deposition, you told the truth, right?
Blanca Francia: As -- as I recall it at that time, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the truth at that time, right?
Blanca Francia: As I remember it.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. And you were under oath, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you said that you had never seen Michael Jackson touch anyone in a sexual way, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you said at no time while you worked for Michael Jackson did you ever see him have sexual contact with anyone, right?
Blanca Francia: When I say “sexual”, I mean sexual.
Mr. Mesereau: But you did say under oath that you had never saw Mr. Jackson have sexual contact with anyone, right?
Blanca Francia: No. No.
Mr. Mesereau: Isn't that what you said?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, yeah, that's what I said.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you mentioned that Mr. Jackson has a Jacuzzi, right?
Blanca Francia: Where at? At the Havenhurst?
Mr. Mesereau: Well, let's start with Havenhurst.
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Mr. Jackson have a Jacuzzi at Havenhurst?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And just tell the jury where the Jacuzzi was, please.
Blanca Francia: It's outside his patio.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Blanca Francia: Outside of his bedroom.
Mr. Mesereau: And did various family members use that Jacuzzi?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see anyone use that Jacuzzi at Havenhurst?
Blanca Francia: Only Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: And it was outside?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Can you see that Jacuzzi from the house?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Can you see it from any windows?
Blanca Francia: Not from the house. From a separate -- from a separate -- from -- I think from up on the garage, you can see it, but it's not a bedroom.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Mr. Jackson in that Jacuzzi at Havenhurst?
Blanca Francia: I remember one time.
Mr. Mesereau: One time seeing Mr. Jackson use the Jacuzzi at Havenhurst?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you didn't see anyone else ever use it?
Blanca Francia: There was a little -- a boy there.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see his parents use the Jacuzzi?
Blanca Francia: Whose parents? Michael?
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah.
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Janet use it?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever see LaToya use it?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever see anyone use it besides Mr. Jackson?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Was there a Jacuzzi at Neverland?
Blanca Francia: Well, inside his bedroom there is a bathroom with a Jacuzzi in it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you saw Mr. Jackson use that Jacuzzi, didn't you?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Is it downstairs or upstairs in his bedroom area?
Blanca Francia: Downstairs.
Mr. Mesereau: It's downstairs; is that right?
Blanca Francia: His bedroom, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, the prosecutor asked you questions about Mr. Robson, okay?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you say that Mr. Jackson was sleeping on a bed in the lower level of his bedroom?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You didn't see him sleeping in the bedroom on the upper level?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your belief that during the time you worked at Neverland, that Mr. Jackson only slept on the bed on the lower level?
Blanca Francia: Yes. There were times that the other bed was used.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Blanca Francia: But I never saw him in that bedroom.
Mr. Mesereau: So you would see the bed upstairs used, but you didn't know who had used it, right?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You would see the bed downstairs used, but you didn't know who used it, right?
Blanca Francia: It was time when it was just one -- one bed was undone.
Mr. Mesereau: Sometimes, right?
Blanca Francia: Sometimes.
Mr. Mesereau: And sometimes there was a bed upstairs that seemed undone, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were responsible for making both beds, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you ever seen Mr. Jackson lying on his bed watching television?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. A couple of times.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times did you see Mr. Jackson lying on his bed watching television?
Blanca Francia: Probably a couple of times.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would see him watch videos also, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you often in Mr. Jackson's room when he was watching television?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You typically cleaned his room when he wasn't there, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that true?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And it was your understanding that you were supposed to clean his room when he wasn't in there, right?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that you weren't supposed to go in when Mr. Jackson was in the room?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Sometimes I'll unlock his room and he'll be there, and he tell me that it was okay to come in.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And sometimes you would unlock his door, he'd ask you not to come in, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Most of the time when you cleaned his room at Neverland, he wasn't in it, right?
Blanca Francia: Most of the time when he wasn't in?
Mr. Mesereau: Let me rephrase. Let me rephrase. During the time you worked at Neverland, most of the time when you cleaned his room, he wasn't in there, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: You okay? Do you want some water?
Blanca Francia: Huh?
Mr. Mesereau: Do you want some water?
Blanca Francia: No, that's okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that when you cleaned Mr. Jackson's room you were usually supposed to do it when he wasn't around?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And if you opened the door and he was in there, you would ask for permission to come in, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, his bedroom is a very big area, isn't it?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How would you describe it?
Blanca Francia: Big.
Mr. Mesereau: Very big, isn't it?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh. Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And how do you get into his bedroom? If you're going -- let me rephrase it. If you're going into Mr. Jackson's room, what do you have to do to get in?
Blanca Francia: Open the door with a key.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And is that what you would typically do?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there any kind of a bell that would ring?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And would the bell always ring when you entered?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. But it -- it doesn't have a -- you know, it would ring just once.
Mr. Mesereau: Right. Just one ring?
Blanca Francia: And then close, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you then stop it? Would you shut the bell off?
Blanca Francia: I used to unplug it.
Mr. Mesereau: You unplugged it. Okay. So you'd hear a ring, and then you would unplug it; is that right?
Blanca Francia: Well, you have to unplug it from the inside of the bedroom.
Mr. Mesereau: So you'd open the door, right, with a key?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: The bell would go off, and then you would unplug it, right?
Blanca Francia: When I was there by myself, I used to unplug it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And then it would stop ringing, right?
Blanca Francia: And it would stop ringing, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And then you would do your cleaning, right? Is that right?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Tell me what --
Blanca Francia: I'll get there --
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Blanca Francia: -- and then -- once I get there, I unplug it, because when people get close to it, it rings. But it rings, and then it rings one time, it doesn't ring anymore.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. To stop it from ringing, you would unplug it?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. All right. Now, do you know who Quincy Jones is?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who's Quincy Jones?
Blanca Francia: A writer, I think.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And his daughter used to visit Michael, right?
Blanca Francia: At Havenhurst.
Mr. Zonen: Beyond the scope of the direct, and irrelevant.
The Court: Overruled. Go ahead.
Blanca Francia: At Havenhurst?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Blanca Francia: I think she was there a couple of times.
Mr. Mesereau: Her name was Kidada, right?
Blanca Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: But you saw her visit Michael, correct?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see -- do you know who Lionel Ritchie is?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see his daughter visit the Jacksons?
Blanca Francia: Not at Havenhurst.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you see her visit Michael?
Blanca Francia: Him I remember visiting.
Mr. Mesereau: You remember him visiting Michael. You don't remember his daughter?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Before you testified today, did you meet with any prosecutor to discuss what you were going to be asked?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did that meeting take place?
Blanca Francia: Saturday.
Mr. Mesereau: And who did you meet with?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember his name.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me?
Blanca Francia: Ron, I think.
Mr. Mesereau: Prosecutor Zonen?
Blanca Francia: And another one.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how long did the meeting take place?
Blanca Francia: Couple of hours.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many people were there meeting with you?
Blanca Francia: Just the two of them.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they tell you what they were going to ask you in court?
Blanca Francia: They -- they went to what I say before.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they discuss the questions they were going to ask you today?
Blanca Francia: Kinda.
Mr. Mesereau: And did they discuss your answers with you?
Blanca Francia: No. They told me about, you know, what I say in my deposition before, and if I remember, and there was stuff that I didn't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they give you a copy of your deposition to look at?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they appear to be reading from your deposition?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did they have any documents they showed you?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. They gave me a paper of things that I say when I talk to another detective.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Blanca Francia: Not -- not at my deposition.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So it was a paper that they gave you to look at?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was on that paper, if you remember?
Blanca Francia: When I talked to the other detectives, they came, you know, at the beginning.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Blanca Francia: The first time.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember meeting with a lawyer named Larry Feldman?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you met with Larry Feldman before your deposition was taken, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And he came out to see you, didn't he? Let me rephrase it. Maybe you don't understand.
Blanca Francia: Yeah, I understand.
Mr. Mesereau: You do?
Blanca Francia: But I don't remember. Yeah, I think he did. He came to my house, I think.
Mr. Mesereau: He came to your house, didn't he?
Blanca Francia: (Nods head up and down.)
Mr. Mesereau: And he wanted to speak to you before your deposition was taken by him, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And obviously that was quite a while ago, right? Was that around 1993 sometime?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember how much time Larry Feldman spent with you?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember if it was a long time?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was that the only time you met with Attorney Larry Feldman?
Blanca Francia: No. Then I was taken to L.A., and I --
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet with him again?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, for the deposition.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And he was giving you some advice during the deposition, wasn't he?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember. I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't he advise you from time to time during that deposition?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember. There were a lot of people talking to me at that one.
Mr. Mesereau: And he was one of them talking to you, wasn't he?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said that deposition went more than a day, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. It was twice.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And was it after that deposition that you first spoke to an attorney named Terry Cannon?
Blanca Francia: That was -- that was after. After when Mr. Cochran told me that my son was going to be subpoenaed and I would have to bring him.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And then you went to hire an attorney, correct?
Blanca Francia: Then I -- yeah, then I talked to Terry.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And has he been your lawyer ever since?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Has he been your son's lawyer ever since?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When did you last talk to Terry Cannon?
Blanca Francia: I think it was December or November. I don't remember. It was in December.
Mr. Mesereau: Last December?
Blanca Francia: Last December.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And do you remember having a meeting with Prosecutor Zonen and Terry Cannon last year?
Blanca Francia: On December? It was -- Zonen? I don't know his last name. He was a tall guy.
Mr. Mesereau: Prosecutor Zonen, who you see right here --
Blanca Francia: Oh.
Mr. Mesereau: -- do you remember meeting with him?
Blanca Francia: Oh. Yeah, I think he was -- he was there, too. That's when they gave me that deposition.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. In your deposition, you said that you had never seen Mr. Jackson molest a child, right?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: In your deposition, you said under oath you had never seen Mr. Jackson molest a child, right?
Blanca Francia: Molest a child? No. Yeah, I say that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was it after that deposition that you were interviewed by Hard Copy?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: It was before?
Blanca Francia: Oh, before I met with him, with -- at my deposition? No, that interview was before.
Mr. Mesereau: So the interview with Hard Copy was before the deposition --
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- right? And that's the interview you were paid $20,000 --
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- to do, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's the interview that you had your friend Evangeline help you arrange, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And then after you were paid, you said you paid her some money, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Did you ever talk to anyone from The National Enquirer?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Is Hard Copy the only media --
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: -- group that you ever met with?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. I guess someone tried to -- someone contacted me from National Enquirer, I think, and from Los Angeles Time.
Mr. Mesereau: In your deposition, you said the people from Hard Copy are not honest, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last talk to anyone from Hard Copy?
Blanca Francia: When did I -- recently?
Mr. Mesereau: Let me rephrase it.
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: After your interview with Hard Copy, did you ever talk to them again?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you tell Attorney Larry Feldman that you were going to be interviewed by Hard Copy?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And Evangeline worked at Neverland, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell anyone else who worked at Neverland, besides Evangeline, that you were going to be paid to interview with Hard Copy?
Blanca Francia: No. Not that I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some point you learned -- let me rephrase that, excuse me. Let me start again. After your interview with Hard Copy appeared on television - okay? - at some point you learned that other employees at Neverland now wanted to be paid to go on television to talk about Mr. Jackson, right?
Blanca Francia: Did I know that?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: After you hired a lawyer --
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: -- you learned that other employees at Neverland started hiring lawyers, right?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object. Lack of foundation; speculative.
Blanca Francia: I don't remember that.
The Court: Wait. The objection's overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you learn at some point after your Hard Copy interview was on television, that now other people who worked for Michael Jackson were hoping they could make money doing media interviews like you did?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; speculative.
Blanca Francia: No, I didn't know that.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss your Hard Copy interview with anyone besides Evangeline at Neverland?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Who did you work for at Neverland?
Blanca Francia: Did I work for?
Mr. Mesereau: Besides Mr. Jackson. I mean, who did you work -- let me rephrase it. Obviously you worked for Mr. Jackson, but did you report to other people?
Blanca Francia: Did I report to other people? Oh.
Mr. Mesereau: As part of your job.
Blanca Francia: I was working as part of the household, housekeepers.
Mr. Mesereau: And who did you work with; do you remember?
Blanca Francia: The workers? I don't remember their names. But I -- I --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, the Hard Copy interview was in 1993, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: It was in December of 1993, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you stopped working in 1991, right?
Blanca Francia: (Nods head up and down.)
Mr. Mesereau: So after you left -- after you stopped working for Mr. Jackson, you stayed in touch with some people who worked for Mr. Jackson, right?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: What about Evangeline?
Blanca Francia: But she wasn't working there no more.
Mr. Mesereau: When did she stop?
Blanca Francia: Before me.
Mr. Mesereau: Was she in touch with people at Neverland?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; speculation.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge.
Blanca Francia: Not that I know.
Mr. Zonen: There's an objection.
The Court: To her knowledge. I'll limit it. She answered no, not that she knows.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk to any representative of the media before you had your deposition taken?
Blanca Francia: Did I -- did I talk --
Mr. Mesereau: I'm -- yes, let me rephrase it.
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And if I'm unclear, just tell me, and I'll try and say it again. You said your interview with Hard Copy was after the deposition, right?
Blanca Francia: No. It was before.
Mr. Mesereau: It was before. Okay. How long before it, if you know?
Blanca Francia: About a month.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you discuss the fact that you were going to be interviewed by Hard Copy with any attorney?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember Evangeline saying to you, “Would you like to go to The National Enquirer”?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember. I remember a guy called me, but he never told me that someone refer me or --
Mr. Mesereau: But didn't Evangeline suggest that you call The National Enquirer?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: She didn't? She didn't ask you, “Do you want me to find The Enquirer?”
Blanca Francia: I don't remember that, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your memory if I just show you a transcript --
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: -- of your deposition?
Blanca Francia: Oh, okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Can I do that?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What page, Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: 208.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that page?
Blanca Francia: No. Oh. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: You've had a chance to look at the page, right?
Blanca Francia: Did I what?
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to read that page of your deposition?
Blanca Francia: Before today?
Mr. Mesereau: No, no, today.
Blanca Francia: Oh, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I just showed you the page, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at it?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And does it refresh your memory about what Evangeline said to you?
Blanca Francia: You know, tell you the truth, I probably did at that time. And I remember at the time, but this time I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Bailiff Cortez: Ma'am, speak into the mike.
Blanca Francia: Oops.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't you tell Evangeline that you were willing to talk to The Enquirer?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Would it refresh your recollection just to look at the page?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: It wouldn't? So even if you read the page, it won't help, do you think?
Blanca Francia: It won't help me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. But you don't remember what you said to Evangeline about talking to The Enquirer?
Blanca Francia: I don't even remember the whole sit -- I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Blanca Francia: It was a lot -- at that time, you know, it was --
Mr. Mesereau: Evangeline called Hard Copy for you, right?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh. Yeah, I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: And she did it for you, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, I think she did.
Mr. Mesereau: You wanted her to find a way to communicate with Hard Copy, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you wanted to talk to either Hard Copy or The Enquirer, right?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember if it was either of them, but I remember that I say yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay.
Blanca Francia: Because I think they approach her first, someone approach her. And she said, “Well, they want to talk to you, too”. That's what I got.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have an understanding with Evangeline that if she arranged these interviews for you, that you would pay her?
Blanca Francia: That I would pay her?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you believe she was just doing it as a friend?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you didn't have any arrangement with her that you would split the money, right?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You gave her some money later on because you appreciated what she had done for you, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Yeah, because of the trouble that she was going -- you know, she did, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you gave her money as a friend, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. There was no understanding before the interview with her how much she would get?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, Evangeline told you that she had reached Diane Dimond of Hard Copy, right; is that right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Evangeline arranged for you to meet with Diane Dimond, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many meetings did you have with Diane Dimond with Hard Copy?
Blanca Francia: I think it was just one.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember going to the Hilton Hotel?
Blanca Francia: My -- yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that where you saw Diane Dimond during a meeting?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's the meeting Evangeline went with you to, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You told Diane Dimond during that interview that you never told anyone that you had ever seen Michael Jackson molesting boys, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes, I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: And it was Evangeline that negotiated how much money you were going to get, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You learned that you were going to get $20,000 from Evangeline, right?
Blanca Francia: From Hard Copy.
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah.
Blanca Francia: Not from Evangeline.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me rephrase it to make sure you understand.
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: You learned from Evangeline that you were going to get $20,000 for the interview with Hard Copy, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that correct?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Evangeline was supposed to speak to Hard Copy about the money you were going to get, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: So she was really your assistant, wasn't she?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. If you remember, how long was the meeting at the Hilton Hotel with Diane Dimond?
Blanca Francia: About three hours, probably.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were there other people at that meeting as well?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember. I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if you were given a contract to sign?
Blanca Francia: I signed it, but I don't remember at what time I did, if it was during that time or after the interview.
Mr. Mesereau: But you did sign the contract with Hard Copy --
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: -- right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you get that contract?
Blanca Francia: How did I what?
Mr. Mesereau: How did you get a copy of that contract?
Blanca Francia: I guess they give it to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did Miss Dimond give it to you directly or did Evangeline give it to you?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me?
Blanca Francia: Miss Dimond gave it to me, I think.
Mr. Mesereau: At the meeting?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember. It was during the -- in the room.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you were asked to sign that contract in that room before you left, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, I guess so.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that what you remember?
Blanca Francia: That's what I remember. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. The day after you were interviewed by Hard Copy, Miss Dimond called you again, right?
Blanca Francia: The day after?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. The day after your interview with Hard Copy, Ms. Dimond called you again, right?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Blanca Francia: I don't remember her calling me, but I don't remember if it was the next day or --
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember her wanting pictures of Michael Jackson?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Ms. Dimond wanted you to get her pictures of Mr. Jackson, right?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember that?
Blanca Francia: I think I give it to her, but I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember saying to Ms. Dimond you don't have pictures of Michael Jackson?
Blanca Francia: I don't -- ask that --
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry, I may not be explaining it properly. Let me just rephrase the question. I'll withdraw the question.
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: The day after you interviewed with Hard Copy, Miss Dimond called you on the phone, right?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, after the interview with Hard Copy, do you remember at some point in time Miss Dimond called you?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember Miss Dimond ever asking you to get her pictures of Michael Jackson?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember, but I give it to her sometimes. Or one time, I guess, she got some pictures of him.
Mr. Mesereau: And was that part of your contract with the show Hard Copy, that you would give them pictures?
Blanca Francia: Yeah -- yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when they paid you $20,000, was part of what you had to do to give them pictures?
Blanca Francia: Yes. I guess.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember sending any pictures of Mr. Jackson's animals to Hard Copy?
Blanca Francia: I think all the pictures I got, I give her, it was me with animals, probably. But it was me mostly. Not of animals.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you send pictures of Mr. Jackson's lion?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How about his tiger?
Blanca Francia: Not -- I was in the picture, but it wasn't by itself of the --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Blanca Francia: -- tiger.
Mr. Mesereau: You gave Ms. Dimond a picture of your son with Mr. Jackson, right?
Blanca Francia: With Mr. Jackson? I don't remember, but I -- no, I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh if I just show you the transcript of your deposition?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Page number, Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: 231.
Mr. Zonen: 231?
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to review that page of your deposition?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said under oath during the deposition that you gave Ms. Dimond a picture of your son and Mr. Jackson, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you could -- you didn't think people would notice your son on the show, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Probably. Probably, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You said in the deposition you didn't think anybody would recognize who your son was on the Hard Copy show, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Probably I said that.
Mr. Mesereau: That's what you said, right?
Blanca Francia: I probably -- yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, at some point, you called Diane Dimond and she didn't return your calls, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: You called her because you thought she had lied, right?
Blanca Francia: She had lied?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Blanca Francia: I didn't like -- I thought that -- that Hard Copy interview thing was going to be shown on Hard Copy, and then I see my pictures everywhere, and even in The National Enquirer, and that's what I thought that it was. You know, I didn't know that they can sell the story to someone else. That's how I felt.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling Ms. Dimond that you had other pictures from Neverland Ranch --
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: -- that you could get? Do you remember that?
Blanca Francia: No, I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember Miss Dimond telling you she could send a messenger to get other pictures that you had of Mr. Jackson?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You gave Ms. Dimond pictures of Mr. Jackson after your interview, right?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't remember if you gave the pictures before or after the interview?
Blanca Francia: No, no, no. After -- of Mr. Jackson? No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I'm asking you when you gave pictures to Miss Dimond. Was it before the interview or after it?
Blanca Francia: Oh. I think it was after.
Mr. Mesereau: The prosecutor asked you questions about Wade Robson. Okay?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember saying in your deposition that you saw Mr. Robson sleeping in Mr. Jackson's bed?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember you were asked how many times you saw that, and you said, “Maybe twice”?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember that I say that, but I think that's what it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Maybe twice?
Blanca Francia: I remember -- I don't remember what I say at the time, but I think that was the time -- I mean, that was the times.
Mr. Mesereau: So you think you saw Mr. Robson in Mr. Jackson's bed maybe twice?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And you think you saw Mr. Jackson in a shower with Mr. Robson one time, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But you said the shower was fogged up and you couldn't really see, right?
Blanca Francia: I saw the figure.
Mr. Mesereau: You saw the figure. And you heard a lot of laughing, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And you thought they were playing, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: In your deposition, you said under oath you couldn't tell whether they were touching each other or not, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember meeting Joy Robson, who is Mr. Robson's mother?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first meet Joy Robson?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know about when it was, what year?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You told the jury that you walked into the door at the hideout apartment and saw your son on Mr. Jackson's lap one time, right?
Blanca Francia: Not at the hideout.
Mr. Mesereau: Where was it?
Blanca Francia: Havenhurst.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you said your son was reading a book?
Blanca Francia: (Nods head up and down.)
Mr. Mesereau: Is that right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. The prosecutor asked you questions about finding money in your son's pants, right?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: You found the money in his pockets, correct?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever seen that Hard Copy interview that you did?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Has anyone from the prosecution tried to show it to you?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: No? Okay.
Blanca Francia: I saw little hints. One day I got home and they were showing, you know, like little parts, what they going to show the next day. That's what I saw.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember stating that you thought Michael Jackson was very childlike?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: He very often acted like a child, in your mind, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember saying that he would let his chimpanzee sleep in his room?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember that?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: The chimpanzee's name was “Bubbles”, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Bubbles would sometimes stay in Mr. Jackson's room, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You talked about Bubbles wearing a diaper, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You said the monkey didn't like the diaper, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would often clean after the monkey was in Mr. Jackson's room, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You said at one time Bubbles got too old and then there was another monkey, right? Right?
Blanca Francia: I remember -- I don't remember about the other monkey, but it was Bubbles.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Jackson and a lot of children used to play with the monkey, didn't they?
Blanca Francia: At Havenhurst he only had Bubbles.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But children would come and play with the monkey, wouldn't they?
Blanca Francia: Not at Havenhurst. Just one time.
Mr. Mesereau: Where would you see Bubbles?
Blanca Francia: At Havenhurst, I think.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever see Bubbles at Neverland?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember. I think it was bigger at that time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But he was at Neverland, right?
Blanca Francia: He was at Neverland? I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. But you would often at Neverland see Mr. Jackson playing with kids, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: He would play with kids all the time, wouldn't he?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And kids would often visit Neverland, right? Is that true?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. Do you remember a dance room where Mr. Jackson used to do dance routines?
Blanca Francia: A what?
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry. Let me rephrase it. Do you remember a dance room --
Blanca Francia: Oh, a dance room, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: -- where Mr. Jackson used to practice dance routines?
Blanca Francia: Where at? Neverland?
Mr. Mesereau: Anywhere.
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Where was the dance room?
Blanca Francia: Behind the theater.
Mr. Mesereau: At Neverland, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you used to see Mr. Jackson go there and practice dance, right?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: You also saw Mr. Jackson teaching children to dance, right?
Blanca Francia: Playing with the kids.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And he used to teach children how he dances, right?
Blanca Francia: I don't know if it was the children, but I see him with the kids.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. In the dance room, right?
Blanca Francia: In the dance room, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you ever discussed your son's claim that Mr. Jackson improperly touched him with your son? Have you ever had a discussion about that?
Blanca Francia: At one time, back in '94.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You talked to your son about what he said --
Blanca Francia: I'm --
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry, go ahead.
Blanca Francia: I say, “What's going on?” And he say, “I just don't want to talk about it”.
Mr. Mesereau: This was in 1994?
Blanca Francia: '94, I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever discussed with your son his claims about Mr. Jackson?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never?
Blanca Francia: No. I -- I ask him that I was going to ask his counselor.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Blanca Francia: And he say no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you've never discussed --
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: -- your son's claims with him?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you had a meeting with Prosecutor Sneddon?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, one time.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that?
Blanca Francia: '93, I think.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you met with Mr. Sneddon since 1993?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you had any meetings with any sheriffs to discuss your testimony?
Blanca Francia: Other than -- no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you ever had a meeting with any sheriff about what you're going to say today?
Blanca Francia: Other than Saturday, that, you know, they told me that I was going to come here.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Was any lawyer at that meeting?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: Shall we take our break?
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Francia, I'd like to ask you some questions about the deposition you gave on January 11th, 1994, okay?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Before you attended that deposition, you had been asked to bring the contract you had with Hard Copy with you to the deposition, right?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as irrelevant.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, I believe the prosecutor introduced the subject of Hard Copy.
Mr. Zonen: Not a contract.
The Court: The objection's overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember that? Let me rephrase it.
Blanca Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Before you appeared at a sworn deposition on January 11th, 1994, you had been asked to bring a copy of the contract you had with Hard Copy to the deposition, right?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember at that deposition, you said you had destroyed the contract?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember what I said or --
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember saying you'd gotten rid of it?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you the transcript?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Francia, have you had a chance to review those deposition pages?
Blanca Francia: Did I have a -- had I had a chance? No.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry, no. I just showed you some pages from the deposition, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have a chance to review that portion of the page that I showed you?
Blanca Francia: I haven't read any of the deposition paper.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you just read it when I showed it to you?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And does it remind you that you said you had gotten rid of the contract?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, I probably did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember saying that in the deposition?
Blanca Francia: No, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you get rid of that contract at some point?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, I don't have it anymore. Yeah, I don't have it.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you throw it out?
Blanca Francia: I think I -- yeah, I think I threw it away, or --
Mr. Mesereau: Did you throw it out before the deposition of January 1994?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, I think I destroy -- I destroyed it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember stating in that deposition that you showed the contract to Larry Feldman?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember showing that contract to Attorney Larry Feldman?
Blanca Francia: No, I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you the deposition page?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Francia, have you had a chance to look at that page of your deposition?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I just showed you a page of your deposition --
Blanca Francia: Oh, just now, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have a chance to read that page?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about your saying you let Larry Feldman see the contract?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You don't remember showing it to Larry Feldman?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you met with Larry Feldman, what, twice?
Blanca Francia: Well, first it was here in Santa Maria. He came down.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Blanca Francia: And then I met with him when I went there twice.
Mr. Mesereau: So is that three meetings you had with Attorney Larry Feldman?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that would be in the early 1990s, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you go to him to get some advice?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk to him about what you were going to say on television?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You've talked to Santa Barbara Sheriff Russ Birchim a number of times, haven't you?
Blanca Francia: Russ Bir -- it was from Santa Barbara, but I don't remember the name.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know a Santa Barbara sheriff named Russ Birchim?
Blanca Francia: Russ --
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know a Santa Barbara sheriff named Russ Birchim?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember the name of it, but it was a detective or sheriff.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember when your son Jason first spoke to any police officer about what he claims happened with Michael Jackson?
Blanca Francia: I remember one of the times, but I don't know which time it was.
Mr. Mesereau: At your deposition, you said that you went on Hard Copy after your son spoke to the police, right?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember if it was before or after.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Would it refresh your recollection to just show you --
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: -- the deposition? May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that page from your sworn deposition?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it remind you that your son had talked to the police before you went on Hard Copy?
Blanca Francia: It doesn't -- I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you know your son was going to speak to any police officer about Mr. Jackson?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: It happened without you knowing about it?
Blanca Francia: I didn't know he was -- they were going to talk to him.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have any idea why the police wanted to talk to your son at that point in time?
Blanca Francia: No, I don't remember. I think when they first talked to him, they came to the house and asked me if they could talk to him, but I don't remember when was this.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know who told the police anything about your son?
Blanca Francia: I think they -- someone told me that they needed to talk to my son, or they need to talk to me about my son.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if Larry Feldman, the attorney, contacted the police about your son?
Blanca Francia: No, I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you worked approximately five years at the Havenhurst address, right?
Blanca Francia: Altogether --
Mr. Zonen: Misstatement of evidence; objection.
Blanca Francia: Altogether --
The Court: Just a moment. I sustain the objection, Counsel.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: You worked for approximately two years at Neverland, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; misstatement of evidence.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that true?
The Court: She answered “Yes” before.
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh, I didn't hear her. Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, while you were at Neverland, you reported to someone named Norma Stakos, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who was Norma Stakos?
Blanca Francia: One of the secretaries. She was a secretary.
Mr. Mesereau: A secretary to who?
Blanca Francia: Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you would speak to her from time to time, correct?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you remember she talked to you in 1991 about the fact that for the third time your wages had been garnished by a creditor?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; irrelevant.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: And hearsay.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ask Miss Stakos on behalf of Mr. Jackson to help you with any bills you couldn't pay?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; irrelevant.
The Court: Overruled. The answer was, “No”.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have a discussion with Miss Stakos about the fact that she couldn't pay you?
Blanca Francia: No, never did.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know anything about a wage garnishment?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What do you know about that?
Blanca Francia: That --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as irrelevant.
Mr. Mesereau: I don't think so, Your Honor.
The Court: I thought it was initially, but I changed my mind. So I'll overrule the objection.
Mr. Mesereau: What do you remember telling Miss Stakos about a wage garnishment?
Blanca Francia: About my taxes, not paying in time, and I need -- you know, they needed to wage - how do you call that? - take money out of my paycheck.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Miss Stakos help you with that?
Blanca Francia: Well, she was the payroll, so she's the one who took it off of my paycheck. But she never gave me money, or anybody gave me money to pay that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember you owed money to a store called Dearden's?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And they were trying to garnish your wages, right?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh. Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you -- you asked Miss Stakos to help you straighten that out, right?
Blanca Francia: Not to straighten it, but to -- you know, just to pay off of my check.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did she work with you on that?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And she did that for you on a couple of other occasions, right?
Blanca Francia: I remember two times. And I don't remember more than that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And she had a problem at one point because you had a phony Social Security number, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And she helped you straighten that out, right?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You eventually got a proper Social Security number?
Blanca Francia: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But you did discuss that with Miss Stakos, right?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember. But they knew that I was illegal, and Mr. Bray wanted to help me to get my papers.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And that got straightened out, didn't it?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you know someone named Gayle Goforth?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And who was Gayle Goforth?
Blanca Francia: The housekeeper. One of the housekeepers. The head housekeeper of the house.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you work with her?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: For how long did you work with her?
Blanca Francia: Probably a year, a year and a half. Maybe a year.
Mr. Mesereau: And at one point you admitted going into her purse, right?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And you went into her purse to see how much she was being paid, right?
Blanca Francia: Her purse was on top of the -- our desk, and she have her check on top of it.
Mr. Mesereau: And you admitted going into her purse, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: The purpose was to see what she was being paid, wasn't it?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Blanca Francia: I admitted to Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me?
Blanca Francia: I told Mr. Jackson about it.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. And he -- he didn't get you in any trouble or anything, did he?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you got a coffee table from Mr. Jackson, didn't you?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was a beautiful oak table, right?
Blanca Francia: (Nods head up and down.)
Mr. Mesereau: And where did that come from?
Blanca Francia: From Havenhurst.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ask for that?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And he said you could have it, didn't he?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ask him for the watch that you described before?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you end up with the watch?
Blanca Francia: I think it was one of the boxes that he get -- he get stuff from the companies, and I got it from there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And at some point did you tell Mr. Jackson you had taken a watch?
Blanca Francia: No, he saw it on me. I show it to him.
Mr. Mesereau: And he had no problem with that, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And you indicated that he used to let you take lots of things from time to time, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And a lot of those things, I think you described as samples; is that correct?
Blanca Francia: Samples, and gifts, and things that he get from -- for himself.
Mr. Mesereau: The oak coffee table had a signature on it, didn't it?
Blanca Francia: A signature? Of him?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't it have a signature of him?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You tried to sell that at one point, right?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Still have it?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, it's in the garage somewhere.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you left Neverland, who did you report to to tell them that you were leaving?
Blanca Francia: Who did I report?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Blanca Francia: I mean, I quit. I just --
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah. When you quit, who did you go to and say, “I quit”?
Blanca Francia: I told that lady who was working there at that time. Gayle.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you give her one day's notice?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How much notice did you give?
Blanca Francia: No notice.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You just left, right?
Blanca Francia: I just left.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, on a couple of occasions you got in trouble for not doing your time card properly, correct?
Blanca Francia: A lot of occasions.
Mr. Mesereau: Huh?
Blanca Francia: A lot of occasions for being late.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, you got in trouble for being late, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And you got in trouble for not properly doing your time card, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But Mr. Jackson never yelled at you or did anything mean to you, did he?
Blanca Francia: No. No.
Mr. Mesereau: But you didn't get along with some of the help, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't get along with Gayle Goforth, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: She's the one whose purse you went into, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You and she just didn't get along, right?
Blanca Francia: In the beginning we got along very nice.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember complaints that you wouldn't let anybody get near Mr. Jackson?
Blanca Francia: That I would get --
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember --
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as hearsay --
Blanca Francia: That I would get --
Mr. Zonen: -- and vague.
The Court: Just a moment. The objection's overruled. Do you want the question read back? Do you want me to repeat the question for you?
Blanca Francia: Yes, please.
The Court: I'll have the court reporter do it.
The Court Reporter: Do you remember complaints that you wouldn't let anybody get near Mr. Jackson?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never heard of that?
Blanca Francia: Complaints that I wouldn't let anybody?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: On the staff at Neverland?
Blanca Francia: Probably that I was the one allowed in his room, that I was -- I just wanted to do that --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Blanca Francia: -- myself.
Mr. Mesereau: So you basically wouldn't let other people on the staff get near his room?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; misstatement of evidence.
The Court: Overruled. The answer was, “Yeah”.
Blanca Francia: Because he told me that. He told me not to let anyone in his room.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, the prosecutor asked you about the nickname “Rubba”, okay?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: “Rubba” is short for “Rubber Head”, right?
Blanca Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You never heard that?
Blanca Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Blanca Francia: I never hear that before.
Mr. Mesereau: And Mr. Jackson used to call his cousins, Levon and Elijah, “Rubba”, right?
Blanca Francia: He call the kids “Rubba”, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: He also called kids “Rubber Head”, or “Rubba”, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: He'd also use “Apple Head”, right?
Blanca Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: He'd use “Doo-Doo Head”, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. I think I hear that one time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But it's certainly a term that he used quite often, isn't it?
Blanca Francia: “Rubba”, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: He used it on lots -- he used it for lots of children, including his own cousins, didn't he?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When is the last time you talked to Larry Feldman?
Blanca Francia: After the -- I mean, the last time I went over there and testified, or for the subpoena.
Mr. Mesereau: So that was quite a while ago?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, the prosecutor asked you questions about what you said in the deposition about what you could see in the shower, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And in the deposition you said under oath that all you could see was a shadow, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the truth?
Blanca Francia: A shadow, an image, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: That's all you could see --
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: -- in the shower, correct?
Blanca Francia: I hear two voices.
Mr. Mesereau: You heard giggling and laughing, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And all you could see was a shadow through the glass?
Blanca Francia: The glass, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's because the glass was fogged up, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You only saw one person in the shower, right?
Blanca Francia: I saw him in the shower and the little kid.
Mr. Mesereau: But in your deposition you said you could only see one person, but you heard giggling, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, but I hear two people --
Mr. Mesereau: You heard two people. You could only see one through the glass, right?
Blanca Francia: Mostly, yeah. Mostly.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember you were asked in your deposition, “Did you hear anything else other than Michael laughing?” And you said, “No”?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the truth?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember in the deposition saying you never saw anyone else in the shower but Mr. Jackson?
Blanca Francia: I don't think I say that.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you the transcript?
Blanca Francia: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Page?
Mr. Mesereau: 401.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that page of the deposition?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your memory about what you said about the shower?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: You saw one person, Mr. Jackson, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Or it looked like him through the glass, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And the only voice you really heard was Mr. Jackson, correct?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: That wasn't correct?
Blanca Francia: I hear two -- two.
Mr. Mesereau: You heard laughter?
Blanca Francia: Laughing and --
Mr. Mesereau: And that was at Neverland, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You've seen Mr. Jackson in his Jacuzzi, correct?
Blanca Francia: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You've seen him playing in his Jacuzzi, correct?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: You've never seen him molesting anyone in his Jacuzzi, right?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me just make sure that's phrased properly. You've never seen Mr. Jackson improperly touch anyone in his Jacuzzi?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never saw that, right?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you seen Mr. Jackson at Neverland tickling and playing with children?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You've seen him do that often, haven't you?
Blanca Francia: Playing, yeah. Playing a lot with the kids.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object to the compound nature of the question, “tickling and playing”.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You've seen Mr. --
Mr. Zonen: Move --
Mr. Mesereau: Oh.
Mr. Zonen: Move to strike the answer.
The Court: I think she clarified it in her answer.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. That's fine.
The Court: Go ahead, Counsel.
Mr. Mesereau: You've seen Mr. Jackson tickling children at Neverland, haven't you?
Blanca Francia: Not that I remember, no.
Mr. Mesereau: You never saw him playing in the yard?
Blanca Francia: Playing in the yard, yeah. Not tickling --
Mr. Zonen: Objection to the use of “playing” and “tickling” interchangeably as compound.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. I'll move on.
Mr. Mesereau: You've seen children at Neverland from an organization called Make-A-Wish Foundation, correct?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And children from Make-A-Wish Foundation often used to visit Neverland, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And they would crowd and climb all over Michael Jackson, right?
Blanca Francia: Play with him, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, they would all just surround him, wouldn't they?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would see him play with them often, didn't you?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You would see those children running around Neverland a lot, correct?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Mr. Jackson used to run around with them, didn't he?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: He used to take them to the theater to watch movies, didn't he?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And children would sometimes sit in his lap in the theater watching the movies, didn't they?
Blanca Francia: I --
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see that?
Blanca Francia: I never see that. Because I --
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry.
Blanca Francia: I was never there when he was there with kids.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, have you participated in any event -- excuse me, during the time you worked at Neverland, did you participate in any large events when guests would come to Neverland?
Blanca Francia: In any events, like --
Mr. Mesereau: Guests, parties, things of that sort?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, we used to have an employee barbecue or -- then we all would come.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember any other big events at Neverland while you worked there?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember helping set up for guests who would visit?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: That would happen a lot, wouldn't it?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when guests were going to visit Neverland, what would you do?
Blanca Francia: What do you mean?
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah. What were your responsibilities when guests would visit Neverland? What kind of work would you do?
Blanca Francia: Help in the house, help the cooks, help to clean their bedrooms.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you clean bedrooms other than Mr. Jackson's?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, the guest rooms.
Mr. Mesereau: And you used to see guests stay in the guest quarters from time to time, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you see Mr. Jackson's children in the main house when you worked there?
Blanca Francia: If I see who?
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see any children --
Blanca Francia: Oh.
Mr. Mesereau: -- staying in the guest main house when you were there?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. “Guest main house”?
Mr. Mesereau: That didn't come out too well. I withdraw that.
Mr. Mesereau: When you worked at Neverland, did you see any children who used to stay there, besides what you've described?
Mr. Zonen: Stay where? Objection; vague.
Mr. Mesereau: Neverland.
Blanca Francia: Stay where, at the guest rooms?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Blanca Francia: No. They will stay in the house, in the main house.
Mr. Mesereau: Children usually stayed in the main house, right?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know someone named Frank Cascio?
Blanca Francia: Frank Cascio. No, I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know a family named “Cascio”?
Blanca Francia: No. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know someone named Tyson?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. No further questions at this time.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Miss Francia, you told us that Mr. Jackson had mentioned to you about not letting people in his room. What exactly was it that Mr. Jackson told you in that regard?
Blanca Francia: Not to let people in; that people want to know about his business all the time, and not to let anybody get in there.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you people in particular?
Blanca Francia: No. Just everybody. Anybody.
Mr. Zonen: Was that something he said to you often?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a key to that room?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you he wanted the room kept locked?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: During the time that you worked for him at Neverland, did you see people coming and going into his room?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: During the time that you worked at Neverland, did that door stay locked fairly regularly?
Blanca Francia: Closed all the time.
Mr. Zonen: Were there ever people coming and going into his room that he did not give permission to come and go into the room?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did Wade Robson come and go into his room at will?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Kids were allowed to go there.
Mr. Zonen: Other kids were allowed to come into his room?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: If he was there -- if he was not there, or only when he was there?
Blanca Francia: Kids were there when he was there.
Mr. Zonen: If he wasn't there, they didn't stay in his room?
Blanca Francia: They -- they never came when he wasn't there.
Mr. Zonen: On those occasions that he was traveling, the “Bad” tour -- Mr. Mesereau was asking you about his travels during the “Bad” tour.
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: And he mentioned a period of time that exceeded a year and a half that he was on tour. Was he continuously away from California for a full year and a half, or would he come and go?
Blanca Francia: He'd come and go.
Mr. Zonen: There were times that he would return?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And stay?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know the longest period of time that he would be away from his residence during that time?
Blanca Francia: Probably about three months.
Mr. Zonen: Three months? Was the residence both the Encino home and the hideout in L.A.?
Blanca Francia: It was mostly the hideout.
Mr. Zonen: Did that tour extend to the period of time after which he moved to Neverland Ranch, or was he completed with his tour by then; do you recall?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: You told Mr. Mesereau that you had answered a question in the deposition about seeing a shadow in the shower. What did you mean by that? What is a shadow? Tell me, what is a shadow?
Blanca Francia: An image.
Mr. Zonen: An image. All right. What did you see when you looked into that shower?
Blanca Francia: Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you see the shadow of Mr. Jackson, or did you see a person that looked like a shadow?
Blanca Francia: Through the glass.
Mr. Zonen: What did you see through the glass?
Blanca Francia: Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: The actual person?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. You didn't see his shadow cast against a wall, or against the floor?
Blanca Francia: Huh-uh. No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. So what did you mean by the word “shadow”?
Blanca Francia: His image.
Mr. Zonen: His image. That's what he looked like?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And was the door blurred during that time?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Excuse me. These are all next in order, please.
Mr. Zonen: At the time that you looked through the glass into the shower, were you able to see a second person in there?
Blanca Francia: I want to say yeah, but I don't -- you know, I hear the laughing and the talking and, you know, playing, and I -- I didn't see the actual person, but it was moving, you know, with him.
Mr. Zonen: Do you believe that you saw the image of a second person?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: But not as clearly as Mr. Jackson?
Blanca Francia: Not as clearly, no.
Mr. Zonen: Did you hear one voice or two?
Blanca Francia: Two.
Mr. Zonen: And were you clear about that?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And did you tell that to Mr. Feldman in the deposition?
Blanca Francia: Oh.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: You don't remember what you said?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: The deposition was how many years ago?
Blanca Francia: More than ten years, I think.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. The portion that Mr. Mesereau asked you, when he showed you that transcript about one or two people, do you recall when in the deposition that question was asked of you? Was it the first day or the second day of the deposition?
Blanca Francia: I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: Was it toward the end of the deposition?
Blanca Francia: I don't know. I think so. I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: Before the deposition began, did they ask you if you wanted to testify in either English or Spanish?
Blanca Francia: I don't think so.
Mr. Zonen: Did they simply assume that you would testify in English?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: All right. This was 11 years ago?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Is your English as good as it is now?
Blanca Francia: A little better, I think.
Mr. Zonen: A little better now?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Would you have preferred to have testified in Spanish at that time?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; calls for speculation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Were you comfortable in English at this time?
Blanca Francia: I wish it would have been in Spanish.
Mr. Zonen: Did you understand all of the questions that were asked of you during that deposition?
Blanca Francia: I was very confused.
Mr. Zonen: Were you confused as to some of the questions?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, and all the lawyers and --
Mr. Zonen: There were a lot of lawyers there, weren't there?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; move to strike.
The Court: Overruled. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: Were you intimidated during that deposition?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: How did you feel during that deposition?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection --
Blanca Francia: I was uncomfortable.
Mr. Mesereau: -- knowledge; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. She said, “Uncomfortable”.
Mr. Zonen: You remembered the monkey Bubbles -- excuse me, the chimp, the chimpanzee; is that right?
Blanca Francia: Bubbles, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was Bubbles at more than one location?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember that. I think I remember that other little monkey. I think it was a different one. But I remember Bubbles at Havenhurst. And then he was taken to some kind of farm or trainer.
Mr. Zonen: Did Bubbles get a little too big?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did Bubbles get rambunctious, wild?
Blanca Francia: Wild.
Mr. Zonen: Did Bubbles ever bite you?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: On more than one occasion?
Blanca Francia: Twice.
Mr. Zonen: Twice? At some time did you become a legal resident?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And you had told them at Neverland about your status?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Is that correct?
Blanca Francia: It was at that time. At that time that I --
Mr. Zonen: While you were working at Neverland; is that correct?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: You mentioned about the coffee table. Where was the coffee table at the time that Mr. Jackson gave it to you?
Blanca Francia: Havenhurst.
Mr. Zonen: It was at Havenhurst. And where at Havenhurst?
Blanca Francia: It was at his dance floor.
Mr. Zonen: Uh-huh.
Blanca Francia: And on top, in the attic.
Mr. Zonen: In the attic?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Was it being used as a coffee table or was it being stored?
Blanca Francia: No, it was being used. It just -- I guess the room was too small, and, you know, it was just in the way for everybody to -- I mean, for -- I guess for people to be there, and --
Mr. Zonen: How did the coffee table end up going to you?
Blanca Francia: Because he wanted it to move out. He wanted it to be moved out, out of there.
Mr. Zonen: He was getting rid of it?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And you knew that?
Blanca Francia: Well, he said, “Move it out of here”, and I asked him if I can take it.
Mr. Zonen: And what did he say?
Blanca Francia: And he said, “Yeah, take it”.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Mesereau asked you questions about your interview with Hard Copy.
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Were you interviewed by more than one person with Hard Copy?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Was that one person Diane Dimond?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have more than one conversation with her?
Blanca Francia: Do you mean personally?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Blanca Francia: Yes, just one.
Mr. Zonen: Was there a conversation, like an interview, and then the interview on television?
Blanca Francia: No, that -- the same day we did everything. She came to the lobby of the hotel, and then we went upstairs and did it.
Mr. Zonen: She came to the lobby. So it was all on the same day?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: Was the interview done at the hotel?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Were there a number of questions that were asked of you during that interview?
Blanca Francia: There were many questions asking about who? Me?
Mr. Zonen: Were there a lot of questions that they asked?
Blanca Francia: Oh. Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: I say “they”, but actually, was it just Diane Dimond who asked you questions?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Yes?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was anyone else asking you questions?
Blanca Francia: No, I don't remember. I don't think so.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know in advance what the questions were going to be?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Were you surprised by what the questions were?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know it was going to be about Michael Jackson?
Blanca Francia: No. I thought it was going to be about me working there.
Mr. Zonen: All right. That was the part that surprised you?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Were you upset about it?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, because then I start to answer, and I felt like I was just there, you know, answering questions that I didn't know they were going to ask me.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did it upset you?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell them you were upset about that?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Were you truthful in your answers?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Mesereau asked you if it was true that you told Diane Dimond in this interview that you never saw Michael Jackson molest a child; is that correct?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: What else did you tell Diane Dimond in the interview?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell Diane Dimond about seeing him sleeping with boys?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell her that that concerned you?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. These are leading questions.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Was there any conversation with Diane Dimond regarding any of the boys that you testified to so far today?
Blanca Francia: I'm sorry, repeat?
Mr. Zonen: Was there any conversation with Diane Dimond regarding the testimony you've given today about any of those boys? You testified about Wade Robson. You testified about Macaulay Culkin. Did you discuss either of those boys with Diane Dimond?
Blanca Francia: No, I said -- I think the only -- that I say that I see him is sleeping with the kids and being in the bathtub with them, playing.
Mr. Zonen: And you told Diane Dimond that?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, I think I did.
Mr. Zonen: Now, this is the bathtub or this is the shower?
Blanca Francia: I don't remember if I told her about the shower. But I remember that I told him about the bathtub and the Jacuzzi, I think.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
Blanca Francia: I told her about the Jacuzzi and the bathtub, I think.
Mr. Zonen: And being there with boys?
Blanca Francia: Being with boys. Yeah, that I will clean up their -- you know, their toys in the bathtub.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Mesereau asked you on cross-examination if you ever saw Michael Jackson in the Jacuzzi at the Havenhurst residence; is that correct?
Blanca Francia: Excuse me? Mr. --
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Mesereau asked you if you saw Mr. Jackson in the Jacuzzi at the Havenhurst residence.
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh. Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And you said, “Yes”?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: With a boy; is that true?
Blanca Francia: It wasn't -- yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Mesereau asked you if you had seen Michael Jackson in bed with Wade Robson twice, and you said, “Yes”?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did you actually see Wade Robson in bed with Michael Jackson?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And that was on two different occasions?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: That doesn't include the times that you didn't see them in bed, but you cleaned up after them?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: When were the two times that you actually saw him in bed with Wade Robson?
Blanca Francia: When was the two times? Do you mean the dates?
Mr. Zonen: Well, I doubt you could do that, but -- could you do that? Do you know the dates?
Blanca Francia: No. No.
Mr. Zonen: Can you give me -- do you remember the two occasions when you saw them? Do you remember either of the two occasions?
Blanca Francia: Just simply be in bed with him.
Mr. Zonen: How did that happen, that you were there and they were in bed together? How did it happen that you saw them?
Blanca Francia: Watching T.V.
Mr. Zonen: They were watching T.V. Were they inside the bed or on top of the bed?
Blanca Francia: Inside the bed.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember what they were wearing?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember if they were wearing anything?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; no foundation.
Blanca Francia: No.
The Court: Just a moment. Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Could you see any clothing on either one of them?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Zonen: Could you see any clothing on either one of them?
Blanca Francia: I saw from the waist up, so -- I don't know if they had pajamas or --
Mr. Zonen: But from the waist up, were either one of them wearing anything?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: They were both nude from the waist up?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: On both occasions?
Blanca Francia: On one occasion I remember.
Mr. Zonen: On one occasion?
Blanca Francia: On one occasion.
Mr. Zonen: May I have those photographs, Counsel? Oh, thank you.
Mr. Zonen: I'd like to show you a series of photographs, if I may. These photographs are numbered consecutively 783 through 789. May I approach the witness, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Let me begin with Photograph No. 783. Could you take a look at that photograph?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recognize the content of that photograph?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And what is that of?
Blanca Francia: This is Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: Oh, you need to use the microphone. I don't think anybody can hear you. 783, then, is what, please?
Blanca Francia: Mr. Jackson's bed.
Mr. Zonen: That's his bedroom?
Blanca Francia: His bedroom, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Is that upstairs or downstairs?
Blanca Francia: Downstairs.
Mr. Zonen: Does this show the bed?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: 784, please, what is that?
Blanca Francia: That's his bedroom.
Mr. Zonen: Upstairs or downstairs?
Blanca Francia: Downstairs.
Mr. Zonen: 785, what is that, please?
Blanca Francia: His bedroom.
Mr. Zonen: Upstairs or downstairs?
Blanca Francia: Downstairs.
Mr. Zonen: 786, what is that?
Blanca Francia: That's the Jacuzzi.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
Blanca Francia: The Jacuzzi.
Mr. Zonen: First floor?
Blanca Francia: In the bathroom.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And can you see where the shower is in that photograph?
Blanca Francia: I can just see the -- right here, the frame, the door frame.
Mr. Zonen: If I were to give you a pen and ask you to draw an arrow to where the shower goes, would you do that?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. I mean, the --
Mr. Zonen: Yes, go ahead. Okay. And for the record, an arrow has been drawn to the far right side of this exhibit, No. 786. No. 777, can you tell me what that is?
Blanca Francia: That's the bathroom.
Mr. Zonen: The shower?
Blanca Francia: The shower.
Mr. Zonen: On the first floor?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: No. 788, what is that, please?
Blanca Francia: That's the shower, that's the security -- I mean, the bedroom -- I mean, the closet.
Mr. Zonen: And that's the garden?
Blanca Francia: And that's the Jacuzzi.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Now, we were looking at a few different things that you -- we're going to go through this when we present it. But in this photograph, which is No. 788, can you see both the Jacuzzi and the room that has the shower in it?
Blanca Francia: Yes. Right across from each other.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And then finally, 789, if you'd look at that, please.
Blanca Francia: Yeah, this is the room upstairs.
Mr. Zonen: That's the bedroom upstairs?
Blanca Francia: The bedroom upstairs, yes.
Mr. Zonen: And that has a bed as well?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: The photographs that I've just asked you to look at, which are No. 783 through 789, do each of these photographs accurately depict the subject matter contained in the photograph, which means are they accurate? Are the photographs accurate of those rooms and those locations?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Now, are these accurate as of 1993?
Blanca Francia: Do you mean --
Mr. Zonen: As of the time that you were there, last there, is it how it looked around the time when you were there?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Tell me what's different.
Blanca Francia: Well, the T.V. -- like, the bed is the same thing. And the television is the same. It's just more stuff in it.
Mr. Zonen: Just more stuff in it?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And the one that you're looking at, as you say that, is 783. All right. And 784, does that appear the same as you last saw it?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: What's different?
Blanca Francia: There's more stuff in it.
Mr. Zonen: More stuff?
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: But the furniture is in the same place?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: 785?
Blanca Francia: Yeah. This wasn't here when I was there.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
Blanca Francia: It wasn't -- it wasn't like when I used to clean it.
Mr. Zonen: How was it different?
Blanca Francia: The paintings and this mannequin.
Mr. Zonen: All right. I'm going to withdraw this one. I'm going to withdraw 785. 786. Take a look at 786.
Blanca Francia: Yeah, that's the same. I mean, that's the same, the same as far as the furniture, and even the towels and --
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Blanca Francia: -- the toys.
Mr. Zonen: 787?
Blanca Francia: It's the same.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Blanca Francia: It's just crowded.
Mr. Zonen: 788?
Blanca Francia: Yeah, it's the same.
Mr. Zonen: And seven -- let me see that again. All right. This was 789 that I showed you and originally called it 787. Back to 789. So this is the same?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Here is the real 787, with the shower. Is that the same?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And then 787 is the same?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Your Honor, I'm going to move into evidence 783, 784, 786, 787 and 788 and 789, and withdraw 785.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: They're admitted.
Mr. Zonen: May I publish these at this time?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Mrs. Francia, this is a laser pen, and it sheds a laser beam. And you just go like that. Don't show it in anybody's eyes. The first one is 783. And would you tell us what that is, please?
Blanca Francia: 783, this?
Mr. Zonen: Yes, that room.
Blanca Francia: Mr. Jackson's bed and --
Mr. Zonen: Oh, we have a problem. Unfortunately, you're going to have to turn back to use the microphone. Take a look at it, and then turn back to use the microphone so we can hear you.
Blanca Francia: That's Mr. Jackson's bed, and television. And that's the entrance, the stair that goes to the stairs, three. And then you go around to the bathroom.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. 784. And tell us what that is, please.
Blanca Francia: That's the same. This will be the television cabinet.
Mr. Zonen: And this is the first floor again; is that right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, did you say that there was some things that weren't there --
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- at the time that you last worked for Mr. Jackson. Show us what that is.
Blanca Francia: These pictures here.
Mr. Zonen: Those pictures right there. Anything else?
Blanca Francia: This horse.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Now, Mr. Jackson did not have children of his own at that time, did he?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. 786, please. Now, here's the one where I asked you to put an arrow. Do you recognize the arrow where you put it?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Show it.
Blanca Francia: Right there.
Mr. Zonen: What does that point to?
Blanca Francia: The shower.
Mr. Zonen: And where is the shower?
Blanca Francia: Right here. About right here.
Mr. Zonen: And you had told us earlier in your -- this is the first-floor bathroom; is that right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And you told us earlier in your testimony, that you had to come closer to be able to see into that room?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Can you show us in this picture where you were standing at the time that you actually looked into that room?
Blanca Francia: Probably about right here. So I can see in.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And then you said that there was also a Jacuzzi outside?
Blanca Francia: It's a shower. Right there.
Mr. Zonen: A shower. So is that on the other side of that wall, the back wall?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Next picture, please. And this, I think, is 787. And what is that?
Blanca Francia: That's the shower.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Is that the same door that you recall?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And that's the shower that you gave testimony to. And the last one, please. Two more. 788. And this is 788. Is that the same bathroom downstairs?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Do you have a better view of the room that has the shower?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Show us where that is, with the laser.
Blanca Francia: Right here.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. That's the toilet that you can see?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And on the other side of the toilet is the shower?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh. Right next to it.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Can you show us now where you were standing? Can you put the laser on where your feet were at the time you were standing?
Blanca Francia: Probably right here. Right here on this corner.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And then finally, 789. And what is that, please?
Blanca Francia: That's his -- that's another room.
Mr. Zonen: That was the bed upstairs?
Blanca Francia: Uh-huh. Second floor.
Mr. Zonen: Now, Mr. Mesereau asked you about that bed. Sometimes it is slept in and sometimes it is not.
Blanca Francia: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: During that period of time that Wade Robson was coming and visiting, was that bed slept in a lot?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Was it slept in infrequently?
Blanca Francia: No, I always -- just only when a lot of kids were there.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. If it was just Wade Robson, he didn't sleep in that bed?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: How about Macaulay Culkin?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: He didn't either?
Blanca Francia: No.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. I have no further questions, Your Honor. And these exhibits are in evidence. Yes, they are. Thank you. No further questions.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Just very briefly. When -- during the time you worked at Neverland, Mr. Jackson would often have guests in his room, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And people would often hang out on his bed and watch television, correct?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You would often serve them food, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would serve them drinks, right?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: That went on at all hours of the day, correct?
Blanca Francia: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions.
The Court: All right. Thank you.
Mr. Zonen: And I have no further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. You may step down. And we'll recess for the day. And there's no court tomorrow. I'll see you Thursday morning.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:30 p.m.
