Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Monday, April 11, 2005 8:30 a.m.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: Good morning.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor.
The Court: Ready to proceed?
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes, Your Honor. People call Bob Jones.
The Court: Remain standing, please. Face the clerk here and raise your right hand.
Message: BOB JONES Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Bob Jones: So help me God.
The Court: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Bob Jones: Bob Jones. B-o-b; J-o-n-e-s.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Good morning, Mr. Jones.
Bob Jones: Good morning.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Jones, in your employment history, have you ever worked for Michael Jackson?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And is he the man seated to my right with the long black hair?
Bob Jones: Yes, he is.
Mr. Auchincloss: What did you do for Michael Jackson?
Bob Jones: I was vice-president of communications and community relations.
Mr. Auchincloss: And when did you begin working in that capacity for Mr. Jackson?
Bob Jones: 1987.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you tell me a little bit about what that title involves in terms of work?
Bob Jones: Dealing with the media, and the community, and various other assignments.
Mr. Auchincloss: Such as?
Bob Jones: Whatever came up. Getting -- arranging to get awards, arranging for coverage in newspapers, magazines. Assisting in the -- with the fan clubs, et cetera.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Would it be fair to say that you were the man in charge of public relations --
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- for Michael Jackson?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And how many years did you work for Mr. Jackson?
Bob Jones: 16 and a half.
Mr. Auchincloss: And how did your employment come to an end?
Bob Jones: I received a letter one day saying that, “Thank you for your services. They're no longer needed”.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever receive any explanation as to why you were being terminated?
Bob Jones: That, “We were restructuring” --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Bob Jones: -- “and going in a different direction”. That was in the letter.
The Court: Just a moment. Just a moment, please.
Bob Jones: I don't know what you're saying.
The Court: All right. I'm going to overrule the objection, but I'll limit the examination in that area.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. As far as your understanding as to why you were being terminated, can you tell us what you believe to be the reason why you were being terminated?
Bob Jones: Well, I can only cite the letter that I received.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. No foundation; and irrelevant opinion.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll rephrase it.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were you informed as to the reason for your termination with Michael Jackson as his man in charge of public relations?
Bob Jones: No, because at all times --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive.
The Court: I'll allow the answer, “No”.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. So you were never given an explanation as to why you were being terminated?
Bob Jones: At all times --
Mr. Auchincloss: That's a yes or no, question, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive.
The Court: Overruled. The question was, “All right. So you were never given an explanation as to why you were being terminated?” Is that true?
Bob Jones: The letter, yes. The letter. That's all I can say.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Now, one thing we have to be careful about in the question and answer of your examination is we have to be careful we don't talk over each other, so the reporter can get everything down.
Bob Jones: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you have to be careful just to answer the question that's asked. All right?
Bob Jones: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you. So I believe you testified you were terminated late in 2004; is that correct?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And since that time have you had any employment?
Bob Jones: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you been involved in any activity at this time concerning -- during that period of time since your termination that concerns your years of employment with Michael Jackson?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: What is that?
Bob Jones: I went to the State of California and filed a complaint for my vacation pay.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Other than that, have you been involved in the writing of any memoirs of your years with Michael Jackson?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Bob Jones: Is it --
The Court: You may answer.
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And can you specifically tell me what you've been doing in terms of writing those memoirs?
Bob Jones: Preparing a book.
Mr. Auchincloss: Preparing a book?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what is the subject matter of that book?
Bob Jones: My -- well, my years and -- my years with Michael Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: During your years of working with Michael Jackson, did you have occasion to spend time with him personally?
Bob Jones: Seldom.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who was it that hired you?
Bob Jones: Michael Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: Personally?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did you ever travel with him?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: On how many occasions?
Bob Jones: I think on three tours, and perhaps on special occasions for events that I had arranged, such as the World Music Awards.
Mr. Auchincloss: Where was the World Music Awards?
Bob Jones: Monaco.
Mr. Auchincloss: In Europe?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And when was that?
Bob Jones: Now, I can't tell you an exact date. I'm not good on dates.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Can you approximate?
Bob Jones: I would say approximately '92.
Mr. Auchincloss: How long did that trip take?
Bob Jones: The trip probably lasted about ten days.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did you travel with Mr. Jackson to Monaco?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did Mr. Jackson bring any guests with him on that trip?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who?
Bob Jones: Jordie Chandler, his mother June Chandler, and her sister -- his -- Jordie's sister.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you personally see Mr. Jackson and Jordie Chandler together during that trip?
Bob Jones: Of course.
Mr. Auchincloss: How often?
Bob Jones: We -- well, whenever I saw one, I saw the other.
Mr. Auchincloss: If I may approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Jones, I show you People's Exhibit 776. Can you identify that for me, please?
Bob Jones: That's Jordie Chandler.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, you said whenever you saw Mr. Jackson, you saw Jordie Chandler with him?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: How often would you see Mr. Jackson during that trip?
Bob Jones: Well, I would say, doo-doo-doo-doo, in Monte Carlo maybe I saw them three or four times.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you travel on the plane with them to Monaco?
Bob Jones: Most definitely.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you travel on the plane with them back to the United States?
Bob Jones: I -- yes, I traveled on the plane with them from Monte Carlo to Paris, and then back to the United States.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did Mr. Jackson attend the World Music Awards?
Bob Jones: Yes, he did.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you see him there?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever see Mr. Jackson personally demonstrate any physical affection towards Jordie Chandler during this period?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever see any conduct involving any physical contact between Michael Jackson and Jordie Chandler?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: How often?
Bob Jones: On the flight back from --
Mr. Auchincloss: The question is, first of all, how often did you see this?
Bob Jones: Well, just the one time.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you started to talk about the flight back?
Bob Jones: Well, that's when the -- can I make a correction?
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes.
Bob Jones: Number one, I saw them together at the awards. And then on the flight back from Paris to Los Angeles.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Were they in physical contact with one another at the awards?
Bob Jones: He sat -- yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And can you describe -- were they in physical contact during the flight back?
Bob Jones: They were embraced into one another on -- sleeping on the airplane from Paris to Los Angeles.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, going to the music awards, what was the nature of the physical contact that you saw with them at the World Music Awards?
Bob Jones: Jordie sat on his lap.
Mr. Auchincloss: Where were you seated?
Bob Jones: I sat a distance away from June, her daughter, and Jordie and Michael.
Mr. Auchincloss: How many feet away were you when you were observing Mr. Jackson and Mr. Chandler together?
Bob Jones: Oh, I would say approximately 20 feet.
Mr. Auchincloss: And if you would describe for me in detail what you saw at the World Music Awards involving Mr. Chandler and Jackson?
Bob Jones: Well, during the performance, he sat on his lap, Jordie sat on his lap. And the sister sat on the other lap, but at one time Linda Evans took the girl off of his lap and let her sit on her lap.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Jones, during the World Music Awards when you were watching Mr. Jackson and Jordie Chandler sitting together, did you ever see Mr. Jackson lick Jordie Chandler's head?
Bob Jones: No, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you been interviewed by police officers concerning this matter?
Bob Jones: Not that I recall.
Mr. Auchincloss: Didn't you have an interview with Steve Robel and your attorney and myself last week in the victim/witness room --
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- concerning this incident?
Bob Jones: Yes, yes, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: At that meeting, didn't you tell Mr. Robel and myself and your attorney that you weren't sure if that happened?
Bob Jones: I was very --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
Bob Jones: I was adamant in saying I was not sure that that happened. I could -- I could definitely say that they were embraced in one another's arms on the flight, but I don't recall anything about head licking.
Mr. Auchincloss: My question is, didn't you say that you didn't remember that, but you weren't sure whether or not Mr. Jackson licked Jordie Chandler's head?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading, and argumentative, and misstates the evidence.
Mr. Auchincloss: This is impeachment, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection is overruled. You may answer.
Bob Jones: I might have said that. But I don't recall.
Mr. Auchincloss: You don't recall whether you said that?
Bob Jones: No, I don't recall ever seeing any head licking, and I made that as adamant as I could.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. So is it your testimony today that you don't have a recollection of the head licking --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Argumentative, and asked and answered, and leading.
Mr. Auchincloss: I don't think I've gotten an answer yet.
The Court: Well, you haven't got the question out, so go ahead and state your question.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm trying to clarify the state of your memory, sir.
Bob Jones: Sure.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is it your testimony today that you do not remember whether or not you saw any head licking?
Bob Jones: No. I don't remember having seen any head licking.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So is it fair to say you were not saying it couldn't have happened?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Calls for speculation.
Mr. Auchincloss: Are you saying you just simply do not have a recollection of it?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Asked and answered; argumentative; and leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Jones, you said you're writing a book in this case?
Bob Jones: Sure.
Mr. Auchincloss: What is the title of that book?
Bob Jones: “The Man Behind the Mask”.
Mr. Auchincloss: What is the complete title of that book?
Bob Jones: “The Man” --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Objection. Hearsay; relevance.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Bob Jones: Oh. “The Man Behind the Mask”. In all honesty, I don't -- I can't tell you the subtitle.
Mr. Auchincloss: You don't recall the name of your book?
Bob Jones: No, I don't recall the subtitle. I do know “An Insider's View of the Rise and Fall of the King of Pop”. Maybe that's it.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is the name of your book, “Michael Jackson, The Man in the Mirror, An Insider's Account of the King of Pop's Spectacular and Catastrophic Fall from Grace”?
Bob Jones: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; hearsay.
Mr. Auchincloss: That is not the title of your book?
Bob Jones: The “Catastrophic” --
The Court: Just a moment. There's an objection. It's overruled.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
Bob Jones: “Catastrophic Fall” was taken out. It was a suggested title and I took that “Catastrophic” out. And it isn't “The Man Behind the Mirror”. It's “The Man Behind the Mask”. Maybe one of the suggested titles was that other that I did not approve of.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is your book presently at the publisher?
Bob Jones: It is being edited, but the book is not complete. It is far from complete.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is your book presently at the publisher?
Bob Jones: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: What's the name of that publisher?
Bob Jones: System, I think. My co-writer handled that end of it.
Mr. Auchincloss: And your book is currently being edited?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Has it been accepted by the publisher as a prospect for publication?
Bob Jones: It has been, but it has not been approved by me.
Mr. Auchincloss: The manuscript that is at the publisher -- well, let me strike that. Is the book that is being reviewed by your publisher currently an honest account of your years working with Michael Jackson?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Calls for speculation; irrelevant opinion.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you reviewed the manuscript that is at the publisher's?
Bob Jones: I have looked at a manuscript that has not been approved by me.
Mr. Auchincloss: How many times have you looked at this manuscript?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; relevance.
The Court: I'm not sure where you're going with this. Are you -- is it your intent to impeach him with his manuscript, is that what you're --
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes.
The Court: All right. The objection is overruled.
Bob Jones: Perhaps I've looked at it twice and I have -- I have a co-writer.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. This manuscript that you've looked at, is it fact or fiction?
Bob Jones: It's part --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; no foundation. There's a co-writer. It's not been approved. It's being edited by some other people.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm talking about the manuscript he's looked at.
The Court: Objection's overruled.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is this a factual manuscript or is it a fictional manuscript?
Bob Jones: It is factual to a degree.
Mr. Auchincloss: To what degree is it factual?
Bob Jones: It's to a degree, because I -- my co-writer also has included things that I didn't approve of.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to read to you a quote from that manuscript and ask you whether it's factual or fiction.
Bob Jones: Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Can we approach the bench, Your Honor?
The Court: Just a moment. Before you can impeach him with the manuscript, you have to establish a foundation that he, in fact, wrote this part that you want to impeach him with. I'll allow you to approach the witness and show it to him, but I'm not going to allow you to read in open court something that may have been written by somebody else.
Mr. Auchincloss: That's fine, Your Honor.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Jones, I show you People's Exhibit No. 803. It appears to be one page of typed -- this is a word-processed document.
Bob Jones: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: And it's dated March 7th, 2005. There are two paragraphs below the exhibit number. If you'd read those two paragraphs, I'm going to ask you a couple of questions about it.
Bob Jones: Sure. “He's one of the young” --
Mr. Auchincloss: Just a moment. Just read them silently.
Bob Jones: Oh. Okay. I did not write this. This I did write.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
The Court: So did he show you one he wrote and one he didn't write?
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes. And for the record, he indicated --
Mr. Auchincloss: If I'm accurate, Mr. Jones, you indicated the first paragraph in the lower portion of the page you didn't write, but the second paragraph you did write?
Bob Jones: Yes.
The Court: Is that clear to you which he indicated, Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: I think so, but I'd like to talk to the prosecutor first. I think I understand.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. That second paragraph -- Mr. Jones, that second paragraph is an account of what you observed at the World Music Awards; is that accurate?
Bob Jones: That's what I observed on the airplane.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. In that paragraph, it states --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Auchincloss: It's impeachment. And I can show it to you, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection's overruled.
Mr. Auchincloss: It states, “I looked at what was going on with the king and the boy”. Who is “the king” in your --
Bob Jones: The king of pop, Michael Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. “Others looked at them rather strange, too. They were holding each other tight, almost in a romantic sense, cooing. There were pecks on the cheeks and licks on the top of the head”. Those are your words, sir, true?
Bob Jones: Sir --
Mr. Auchincloss: That's a “yes” or “no” question.
Bob Jones: Yes, with reservations.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Jones, did you see Michael Jackson lick Jordie's head?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: If I may approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Jones, I show you People's Exhibit 804. It appears to be an e-mail. Can you identify that for me, please?
Bob Jones: It's from an e-mail that I sent to Stacy Brown, my co-writer.
Mr. Auchincloss: The cite -- well, I won't quote, but that is your e-mail address at the top?
Bob Jones: Yes, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And those are your words?
Bob Jones: If they were sent by my e-mail, yes, they have to be my words.
Mr. Auchincloss: You don't dispute that those are your words?
Bob Jones: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: And I show you People's Exhibit No. 805. If you'd identify that for me, please. Also appears to be an e-mail dated the same date, but the time on it is 22:30:17 EDT. The first one, for identification purposes, 804, is dated -- the time on it is 19:55:32 EDT. Okay. So showing you Exhibit 805, is that one of your e-mails, sir?
Bob Jones: Well, they're both from my e-mail.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. You wrote them?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And in the first e-mail, 804 --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Auchincloss: Offered as impeachment.
The Court: All right. Overruled.
Mr. Auchincloss: You wrote -- and this -- first of all, let me ask you, is the date of this e-mail accurate, October 30th, 2004?
Bob Jones: I would imagine it is, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: In that e-mail, you wrote, “Stacy: The licking is going to be important because he did it in this case, too”. Are those your words, sir?
Bob Jones: Apparently so.
Mr. Auchincloss: And in the e-mail that was dated the same day just a few hours later, did you write, “Stacy: The stuff with Jordie will bite him big”?
Bob Jones: If it's -- if it came from my e-mail, I wrote it. But I don't -- that sounds a little strange from my writing.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you. I have no further questions.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, please, Your Honor.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning, Mr. Jones.
Bob Jones: Good morning.
Mr. Mesereau: My name is Tom Mesereau and I speak for Michael Jackson.
Bob Jones: Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: We haven't met before, right?
Bob Jones: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. The prosecutor referred to an interview that you had with Sergeant Steve Robel and another officer on April 7th, 2005.
Bob Jones: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember that?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you remember you were asked by an officer, “Um, did you see Mr. Jackson engage in any head licking in the World Music Awards?” And your answer was, “No, no, no”, right?
Bob Jones: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And then you were asked, “Um, did you see Mr. Jackson engage in any head licking of anybody?” And your answer was, “Never”. Remember that?
Bob Jones: I recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what you were not -- when you were dealing with your co-writer and publisher, you were not under oath, were you?
Bob Jones: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And of course today you are, right?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. Next question. He answered that.
Mr. Mesereau: The reality is, Mr. Jones, you have repeatedly said you don't recall seeing head licking on the plane, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't recall seeing head licking by Michael on the plane with Jordie, do you?
Bob Jones: I said it, but it was in the -- it appeared in an e-mail. I said I did not recall seeing it, but it -- apparently so, because it appeared in an e-mail that came from my machine.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, in response to the prosecutor's questions, you said you had reservations about that statement --
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- correct? And what are your reservations about that statement?
Bob Jones: That I just don't recall exactly seeing that. I truly don't.
Mr. Mesereau: And would you agree when you're working with a co-writer and a publisher to prepare a book about Michael Jackson, there's pressure to make things sensational when you can, right?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And your publisher and others want a book that can sell, correct?
Bob Jones: My co-writer. The publisher wasn't involved in that particular end of it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And certainly, having worked with Michael all those years, you've seen numerous attempts by numerous people to sensationalize aspects of Michael's life, right?
Bob Jones: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And if you're writing a book about Michael, there certainly is always a temptation to sensationalize if you don't watch yourself, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: How is the book being written?
Bob Jones: Well, I don't quite understand what you're --
Mr. Mesereau: Let me rephrase it. It's probably a poor question. You have a co-writer?
Bob Jones: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Did your co-writer ever work for Michael Jackson?
Bob Jones: No, but my co-writer knows the family.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you're both trying to prepare a book about your observations and experiences in the past, right?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And the prosecutor asked you some questions about what stage it's in, right?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And is there considerably more editing required?
Bob Jones: Most definitely.
Mr. Mesereau: And is it a long ways from being published as far as you're concerned?
Bob Jones: As far as I am concerned, and I'm supposed to have final approval.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you have a co-writer on a book like that -- actually, let me make it more direct. Does your co-writer have responsibility for preparing drafts that you have to then review for accuracy?
Bob Jones: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And is it -- would it be appropriate to say that what the prosecutor showed you has not been approved for accuracy?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object to any further leading of this particular witness, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer. Do you want the question read back?
Bob Jones: Would you repeat the question, please?
The Court: I'll have the court reporter read it back.
The Court Reporter: Okay. And is it -- would it be appropriate to say that what the prosecutor showed you has not been approved for accuracy?
The Court: Are you talking about Exhibit 803, Counsel, or not?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: You need to show it to him, because he's been shown three exhibits.
Mr. Mesereau: I don't know -- are the exhibits in front of you, Mr. Jones?
Bob Jones: Exhibits? I don't have anything.
The Court: They're not up there.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: You may.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Jones, I'm showing you what has been marked as Exhibit No. 803, okay? Do you see that?
Bob Jones: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: That starts off with a title that you said is not accurate and has not been approved, correct?
Bob Jones: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told the prosecutor you had written the words at the bottom of the page that refer to licking, right?
Bob Jones: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And is it your testimony that you have not approved the accuracy of that statement?
Bob Jones: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, the prosecutor showed you an e-mail that you indicated you think you sent; is that correct?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you see that?
Bob Jones: Personally I don't think this is in the book, this statement.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object as nonresponsive.
The Court: I guess it's without -- his answer shows me it's without foundation. So do you want to ask a foundational question on that?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. -- well, let me just show you. I'm looking now at Exhibit 805, okay? And that's the e-mail the prosecutor referred to.
Bob Jones: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And I think you said you believe you sent the e-mail; is that right?
Bob Jones: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And are the words in that e-mail accurate as far as you're concerned?
Bob Jones: Perhaps they are.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know?
Bob Jones: Because I wrote -- if it came from my e-mail address, I had to write it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And -- but you don't know for sure?
Bob Jones: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And are the words on that e-mail words you intend to include in your book?
Bob Jones: Not like that. My -- my co-writer is handling that, and I have tried to change certain things in the way things were said on numerous occasions with him.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it be accurate to say that neither Exhibit 803 nor Exhibit 805 are accurate as far as you're concerned?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; misstates the evidence --
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- as far as to 803.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Bob Jones: Well, I don't know which one -- you got three different things there, don't you?
Mr. Mesereau: Sure. May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Showing you Exhibit 803 and Exhibit 805, okay?
Bob Jones: This is three. This is five.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. Okay? Let's talk about 803. You've already indicated the title -- what purports to be the title is not going to be the title of your book, right?
Bob Jones: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've already indicated that the bottom paragraph that you say you wrote is not accurate; is that correct?
Bob Jones: Uh-huh. This I wrote.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But you're indicating it's not accurate, true?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Bob Jones: Not completely true as far as I'm concerned.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Let's look at the next exhibit, which is Exhibit No. 805. Do you see that?
Bob Jones: Yes. This -- this one is true. I'm sorry. Yes. I'm sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: And you wrote that e-mail, correct?
Bob Jones: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what you said in the e-mail was, in summary, that you might -- and correct me if I'm wrong, that you thought your knowledge of the Chandlers might be an insurance policy for you?
Bob Jones: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Correct?
Bob Jones: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: An insurance policy of employment, right?
Bob Jones: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And what that means is, “I might try and hold over Michael's head what I could say about the Chandlers”, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object to counsel ascribing any meaning to those words.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you mean by “insurance policy of employment”?
Bob Jones: Well, I was not -- I did not have a confidentiality agreement.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Bob Jones: That's what I -- that's what I basically meant.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you also mean that, “Because I've spent all these years with Michael, that I could almost use as a threat writing an expose of him if I'm not employed by him”?
Mr. Auchincloss: Same objection. And argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that sort of what it means?
Bob Jones: No, not really, because I have never -- I have never sued, I have never sold stories. I have never -- in the 16 and a half years, I've never attempted to extort in any manner.
Mr. Mesereau: And I'm not saying you did. I'm just asking you --
Bob Jones: No, no, I did not mean it in that respect.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, when did you say your work was terminated?
Bob Jones: June 9th, 2004.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where was your office at the time?
Bob Jones: In my home.
Mr. Mesereau: You indicated in response to the prosecutor's question that you didn't see Michael very often, right?
Bob Jones: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And why was that?
Bob Jones: This was -- this was Michael Jackson's modus operandi from the very beginning. I saw Michael mostly if we were on a tour that my presence -- if I may explain. I have worked in the entertainment industry prior to working with Michael Jackson for 17 and a half years, and I know familiarity breeds contempt. And the further you stay away from artists, the better off you are.
Mr. Mesereau: And for that reason, did you not go to Neverland very much?
Bob Jones: I went to Neverland when I brought groups up, such as the Challengers Boys & Girls Club. Such as the First AME Church, et cetera. I was not a regular visitor at Neverland at all.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, who was the first group that you mentioned that you brought?
Bob Jones: The Challengers Boys --
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Relevance; beyond the scope.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: In a typical year, while you were employed, how often would you visit Neverland?
Bob Jones: I haven't been to Neverland in years. My visits to Neverland were on a more frequent basis about five years ago when I was able to get groups approved to go to Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you had an office located where?
Bob Jones: Before we closed the offices, we were at 9255 Sunset Boulevard.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how many years did you spend in that office?
Bob Jones: I think we were there approximately ten years, I think. I cannot be for certain.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you indicated at the music awards, the World Music Awards, that at one point you saw Jordie on Michael Jackson's lap and his sister on Michael Jackson's lap together, right?
Bob Jones: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where was Michael Jackson sitting in that event?
Bob Jones: He was seated on the front row next to Prince Albert of Monaco, and -- on one side, and Linda Evans, the actress, on the other side. And I attempted to get -- I had arranged for the Chandlers to sit directly behind Mr. Jackson, because I did not feel that the royalty wanted to be bothered with those guests. But he insisted that they sit with him, so I left it alone.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the mother sit with Michael Jackson as well?
Bob Jones: Behind.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So when you saw the brother and sister sitting on Michael Jackson's lap in the first row, the mother was right behind, correct?
Bob Jones: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: So this is the first row in full view of everyone at the awards show, correct?
Bob Jones: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: There was no effort to hide anything at any time?
Bob Jones: No.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point, did you see the children with their mother behind where Michael Jackson was sitting?
Bob Jones: When I brought them in to their seats, they were seated behind Mr. Jackson. Mr. Jackson moved them up front.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did -- when you say he moved them up front, did he move them into seats up front?
Bob Jones: He moved them into his seat.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. So the children moved into his seat to sit with him?
Bob Jones: With him.
Mr. Mesereau: And the mother still stayed sitting behind?
Bob Jones: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And at some point did you see the children go back with their mother or did they always stay with Michael?
Bob Jones: No, they stayed up there.
Mr. Mesereau: And I think at one point you saw Jordie still sitting on Michael's lap, and Jordie's sister sitting on Linda Evans' lap?
Bob Jones: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Please tell the jury what the World Music Awards show is.
Bob Jones: The World Music Awards show is a show that's given annually in Monte Carlo for the best record sales in -- the best worldwide record sales. I had arranged for Mr. Jackson to be honored by the World Music Awards, and -- because of his record sales. And we had gone there for that particular purpose, for him to be honored by the World Music Awards. And to be seen around the world. And I attempted, because perception is 90 percent of what the public thinks, to get those people off of his lap.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the Chandler family seem to remain during the entire show sitting with Michael?
Bob Jones: Oh, of course. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you -- how did you get to Monaco?
Bob Jones: We flew.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you -- fly from where?
Bob Jones: Los Angeles.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And were there other stops on that trip?
Bob Jones: To Paris. We flew from Los Angeles to Paris, and Paris to Nice, and we helicoptered to Monte Carlo.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall attending any other events with Mr. Jackson on the trip to Monaco?
Bob Jones: Of course, His Royal Highness Prince Albert hosted a reception for visiting dignitaries, and I was -- he had an event -- when you go there, they have an event each night for visiting dignitaries. And there was only one event that Mr. Jackson attended.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall whether or not the Chandler family were at that event?
Bob Jones: They were with him.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was because Michael insisted that the Chandler family go?
Bob Jones: I don't know whether he insisted whether they attend or not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Bob Jones: But all of his guests were invited.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were there any other guests of Michael Jackson that you haven't named?
Bob Jones: No, just the Chandler family.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, did you begin writing your book after your employment ended?
Bob Jones: I had made notes on certain things. Yes, the actual beginning of the writing of the book started after my employment ended, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And has there been an effort by you or your co-writer to market the book overseas?
Bob Jones: Well, I would imagine that the publisher has.
Mr. Mesereau: Has there been an attempt to market it in the United States?
Bob Jones: I would imagine that the publisher has.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And who is in charge of that issue?
Bob Jones: My co-writer.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, do you typically meet with your co-writer periodically?
Bob Jones: We talk on the phone. That's -- that's perhaps one of the reasons there is some confusion, because our -- he's based in New York and I'm based in Los Angeles.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you sort of fax or e-mail manuscripts to one another?
Bob Jones: We e-mail.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you then typically correct or change what you think is either inaccurate or inappropriate?
Bob Jones: Oh, I've changed millions of things that were inaccurate that I didn't say.
Mr. Mesereau: And how far away from having a product that you think is accurate and complete are you?
Bob Jones: I would say six to eight weeks.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you come up with a date during which you intend to announce the availability of the book?
Bob Jones: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember in your interview on April 7th, 2005, a police officer asking you about whether or not there was any licking on the plane by Michael, and you said, “I just don't remember and I would be lying to say that I did”?
Bob Jones: Of course I recall saying that.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was the truth, right?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, on the plane coming back, do you remember where Jordie's mother June was seated?
Bob Jones: Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Where was she seated?
Bob Jones: We were all in first class, and on one side of the rear of first class was Michael and Jordie Chandler. On the total opposite side was June Chandler and her daughter.
Mr. Mesereau: Certainly June and her daughter were in a position to observe Michael and Jordie, correct?
Bob Jones: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: So they were seated parallel to one another?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Nothing that went on was hidden from anybody, correct?
Bob Jones: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And where were you seated in relation --
Bob Jones: I was seated at least two front -- two rows ahead of them.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times have you been contacted by any representative of the sheriffs or police department in this case?
Bob Jones: Well, I was contacted prior to my registration -- I mean, my being served with a subpoena. And at one point, a Richard Steingard, I approached him about representation because he had represented me before in this case, and then he came back and said that he could not represent me any longer. And that's when Attorney Sachs was contacted. So I had been -- they attempted to serve a subpoena to me, and at that time I did accept the subpoena at Richard Steingard's office, and following which he informed me that he could no longer represent me.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever spoken to any prosecutor for the government in this case directly?
Bob Jones: Who do you mean, the government?
Mr. Mesereau: These people. The prosecutors.
Bob Jones: Certainly. I've -- Mr. Auchincloss and Steve Robel.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last meet with Mr. Auchincloss?
Bob Jones: I met with him on Friday when I was told to go home and come back.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you meet with him before that?
Bob Jones: Of course. You mentioned an April date that Mr. Auchincloss had me to come up.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was that April 7th?
Bob Jones: I guess, sir. I don't -- I'm not good with dates, so --
Mr. Mesereau: You had an interview with Sergeant Steve Robel, right?
Bob Jones: And Mr. Auchincloss.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How many meetings did you have with Sergeant Robel, if you know?
Bob Jones: I only met Sergeant Robel when I was with Mr. Auchincloss. I met them both at the same time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So when you said, “I just don't remember and I would be lying to say that I did”, about head licking, Mr. Auchincloss was right there, right?
Bob Jones: We were -- we were there, yes, we were -- the three of us were in the room.
Mr. Mesereau: So he clearly heard you say that, correct?
Bob Jones: Mr. Auchincloss was in the room with Mr. Robel.
Mr. Mesereau: And he tried to misquote you in court today, correct?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. This is argumentative; improper.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Jones, you told Stacy Brown about this head licking incident, true?
Bob Jones: Apparently I did, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you have previously stated that the words on the second paragraph of People's Exhibit 803, which I've shown you - that's the quotes from the book --
Bob Jones: Uh-huh.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- the second paragraph - those are your words?
Bob Jones: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Your Honor, if I may, I'd like to admit --
Bob Jones: With -- with -- may I see that, sir, again?
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes, you may.
Bob Jones: Because -- it may be with exception. Oh, yes, those are my words.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. So you agree that those are your words. Your Honor, I'd like to admit People's Exhibit 803 into evidence at this time.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Hearsay; foundation; relevance.
The Court: Let me see the exhibit. All right. The objection's sustained. It's not going into evidence.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. May I see that?
Mr. Auchincloss: But so that we're clear today about your testimony, is it true that you looked at what was going on with the king and the boy, they were holding each other tightly, almost in a romantic sense --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Asked and answered; move to strike.
Mr. Auchincloss: I believe there's been --
The Court: Overruled. Go ahead.
Mr. Auchincloss: “Holding each other tightly almost in a romantic sense, cooing. There were pecks on the cheeks and licks on the top of the head”; is that true, those are your words?
Bob Jones: I -- I -- with reservation. I know about the -- as I told you --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm asking you are those your words, sir?
Bob Jones: They apparently are my words. If you have them in an e-mail from me.
Mr. Auchincloss: Today your testimony is that, “The licking is going to be important”, you told Stacy that, “because it happened in this case, too”. Those are your words as well?
Bob Jones: I don't recall saying anything about this case. But if it was in an e-mail, I said it.
Mr. Auchincloss: You acknowledge that those words -- that this is your e-mail address?
Bob Jones: B7436@aol --
Mr. Auchincloss: And this is -- you acknowledged this is one of your e-mails to Stacy Brown?
Bob Jones: Nobody else could have done it but me.
Mr. Auchincloss: So do you acknowledge, based upon all the information that you have today, that you did, in fact, see Michael Jackson lick Jordie Chandler on the top of the head, sir? Yes or no.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; asked and answered.
Bob Jones: I guess -- yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
The Court: Just a moment. There was an objection.
Mr. Auchincloss: Sorry.
The Court: The objection is overruled. The answer was, “Yes”.
Mr. Auchincloss: And your testimony is that this incident happened on a plane flying back from Europe?
Bob Jones: On flying back from Paris to Los Angeles.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you. I have no further questions.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Jones, on April 7th, you told the police and Mr. Auchincloss you'd be lying if you said you saw Mr. Jackson licking Mr. Chandler, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Misstates the evidence and argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer. Do you want the question read back?
Bob Jones: I would say since he -- I have to say it has to be true if it came in my e-mail.
Mr. Mesereau: But, sir, you just told the police the other day that you'd be lying if you said he did that, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: Same objections.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: Right?
Bob Jones: I -- I, again, have to say what I said. If it's in my e-mail, it's true.
Mr. Mesereau: But you just told the jury you don't recall seeing something like that, correct?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Asked and answered; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled.
Bob Jones: I go back with the same answer. It was in my e-mail. So if it was in my e-mail, I'm taking responsibility for the e-mail.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, but you've also indicated a number of the things you wrote are not accurate, true?
Bob Jones: I didn't write anything. My co-writer wrote those things. But he is -- he has shown me an e-mail that I wrote and sent to my co-writer.
Mr. Mesereau: But, sir, you just told the jury what you told the police last week, which is that you'd be lying if you said you saw that, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: I believe that misstates the evidence.
The Court: Overruled. Is that what -- he's really asking you, “Is that what you told the police?” Did you tell the police --
Bob Jones: Yes, that is what I told the police.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions.
Message: FURTHER REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Jones, you didn't say, “I would be lying if I said that”. You said, “I would be lying if I said I remembered that”; isn't that true?
Bob Jones: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: And is it fair to say that based on everything you have before you today, you now remember the incidents that you've testified concerning the licking?
Bob Jones: I don't remember. But there is an e-mail which provides explicit evidence that the e-mail came from me.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you believe your e-mails are true; you've testified to that?
Bob Jones: I would not have just made it up.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you.
Bob Jones: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you, Your Honor. Subject to re-call.
The Court: All right. I haven't excused him.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm sorry.
The Court: Call your next witness.
Mr. Auchincloss: Call Stacy Brown.
The Court: When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing. Face the clerk, over here, and raise your right hand.
Message: STACY BROWN Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Stacy Brown: Yes.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Stacy Brown: Stacy Brown. S-t-a-c-y; Brown, B-r-o-w-n.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Good morning, Mr. Brown.
Stacy Brown: Good morning.
Mr. Auchincloss: What is your occupation, sir?
Stacy Brown: I'm -- currently I'm an analyst for MS-NBC and I'm also an author.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. As an author, have you had occasion to collaborate with writers in the creation of books?
Stacy Brown: Oh, yes, several.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you give me an example?
Stacy Brown: Well, in 2002, published by Simon & Schuster, I co-authored the book Blind Faith, a biography of Stevie Wonder and his mom, Lula Hardaway.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you worked in the past to -- collaborated in the past with any members of the family of Michael Jackson in the creation of books?
Stacy Brown: Yes, I have.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who would that be?
Stacy Brown: That would be his older sister, Rebbie Jackson, and his brother Jermaine Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: And when I say “Mr. Jackson”, is he the man seated to my right with the long black hair?
Stacy Brown: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were those -- was there ever any attempt to publish those two books that you just described?
Stacy Brown: The latter two, Rebbie and Jermaine?
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes.
Stacy Brown: That I -- there was --
Mr. Auchincloss: Were they published?
Stacy Brown: No, they was not published.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know why not?
Stacy Brown: Well, the last one with --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; calls for speculation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were those books, either of them, pulled from the publisher by you?
Stacy Brown: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Why?
Stacy Brown: At the direction of --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: May I ask foundation or relevance, Your Honor?
The Court: The relevance.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Brown, did you collaborate with Bob Jones or are you collaborating with Bob Jones in the writing of a book concerning his experiences as an employee of Michael Jackson?
Stacy Brown: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: How long have you been doing that?
Stacy Brown: Since last summer.
Mr. Auchincloss: How did you meet Bob Jones?
Stacy Brown: I met Bob years ago. He was, of course, working for Michael. I was a reporter for the L.A. Daily News at the time, and we were covering a story about Michael's -- the birth of Michael's first child. And I had talked about -- everyone had talked about, everyone in the media, when they want information or comments from Michael on things that -- like having a baby.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who approached whom concerning the writing of this book?
Stacy Brown: Last January during the arraignment here, Bob Jones approached me -- we were both standing outside that day, and he approached me about writing that book.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you've worked together to prepare a manuscript?
Stacy Brown: Yeah, we did. And we didn't -- you know, I didn't initially agree to write the book.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Stacy Brown: There was some concerns that I had. I didn't want to --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive.
Mr. Auchincloss: That's fine.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: So did you originally want to write this book?
Stacy Brown: Not originally, no.
Mr. Auchincloss: Why not?
Stacy Brown: Well, I knew --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; calls for speculation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: It goes to -- offered as credibility.
The Court: The objection is sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Tell me about the collaboration process with Mr. Jones. How has this book come together?
Stacy Brown: Well, I interviewed Bob, another writer also interviewed Bob as well, about his experience, not only with Michael. We have to remember Bob worked with a lot of people including Lionel Ritchie, Rick James, Barry Gordy, the Jacksons as a family.
Mr. Auchincloss: Uh-huh.
Stacy Brown: So Michael was -- and Bob's mind was seen as just a small part of his story, but obviously the publisher wanted more about Michael because he is Michael.
Mr. Auchincloss: When you're collaborating with an individual in the preparation of a manuscript, are there -- is there a dialogue with publishers to see what kind of book the publisher will be interested in?
Stacy Brown: Oh, absolutely.
Mr. Auchincloss: And do you employ a literary agent to try --
Stacy Brown: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- and market the book?
Stacy Brown: Yes. And in this particular case, we employed quite a few.
Mr. Auchincloss: Why is that?
Stacy Brown: Well, Bob has problems trusting people.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; relevance.
Mr. Auchincloss: I can withdraw that.
The Court: All right. I'll strike his answer. You can rephrase the question.
Mr. Auchincloss: That's fine.
Mr. Auchincloss: How many agents did you work with?
Stacy Brown: Gosh. It's now -- five now.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you currently -- are you currently employing an agent?
Stacy Brown: Yes, we are. We are currently employing two.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what are their names?
Stacy Brown: Neil Gudovitz and Bill Gladstone.
Mr. Auchincloss: In working with Mr. Jones, how did you communicate with one another?
Stacy Brown: We spoke a lot over the phone. We met in person. And a lot of times, because of the distance, we e-mailed each other.
Mr. Auchincloss: And so how would it work in terms of his working with you?
Stacy Brown: What would happen is he would send me an e-mail of a lot of his notes that he had kept over the years. We would talk about them, and then I'd start writing. And I would send him what I write, and he would have to approve it, and then he would send it back with any type of changes that needed to be made, and the changes would be -- then be made.
Mr. Auchincloss: If I may approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Jones -- or Mr. Brown, I show you People's Exhibit 803. Could you identify those two passages for me?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection to the extent it calls for hearsay.
The Court: Overruled. I'll allow him to identify them.
Stacy Brown: By “identify”, read them?
Mr. Auchincloss: No, just identify them. Are those two passages that came from the book that you're working on with Mr. Jones?
Stacy Brown: That's correct, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And while I'm up here, I'm going to show you People's Exhibit 804. Can you identify that for me?
Stacy Brown: An e-mail Bob Jones sent to me.
Mr. Auchincloss: You personally received that from Mr. Jones?
Stacy Brown: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And an e-mail --
Stacy Brown: That's correct. Another e-mail.
Mr. Auchincloss: That's Exhibit 805. That's one he sent you as well?
Stacy Brown: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, for the record, are these complete e-mails or did they have some material?
Stacy Brown: Oh, they had a lot of material.
Mr. Auchincloss: But this is just a portion of them?
Stacy Brown: Yeah.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Did Bob Jones, during your collaboration with him in the writing of this book, tell you about an incident in which he observed the defendant, Michael Jackson, lick a boy by the name of Jordie Chandler on the head?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Hearsay; and leading.
Mr. Auchincloss: Offered under 1236.
The Court: The objection is overruled.
Stacy Brown: I'm sorry.
The Court: Just answer that “yes” or “no”.
Stacy Brown: Yeah. Yes, he did.
Mr. Auchincloss: What did he tell you?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Stacy Brown: Well, he described an incident, they were going to the World Music Awards in Monaco, I believe it was. And he talked about how strange it was, because Jordie had a head full of hair, and he said, “I thought maybe it would be more” -- you know, “It would be understandable if he had a bald head”. But he just couldn't understand the licking of the head when he had a head full of hair.
Mr. Auchincloss: He said he saw Michael Jackson lick Jordie's head?
Stacy Brown: Correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Those two passages that I showed you in Exhibit 803, did you ever share that manuscript that contained those passages with Mr. Jones?
Stacy Brown: Oh, yeah. Absolutely. Bob had to approve everything that went to the publisher.
Mr. Auchincloss: So everything that went to the publisher was approved by Mr. Jones?
Stacy Brown: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did this -- did those two passages that I just showed you go to the publisher?
Stacy Brown: Oh, yeah.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you discuss this issue of the licking incident on more than one occasion?
Stacy Brown: Oh, yes, we did. Do you want me to --
Mr. Auchincloss: Go ahead.
Stacy Brown: Yeah, we did. Beginning in, I would say, maybe August or September, he and I discussed it. And we discussed it with another writer, Dennis love, and also our agent and the publisher.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. You previously mentioned Neil Gudovitz and Bill Gladstone. Was it discussed with those two gentlemen?
Stacy Brown: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And your publisher, who would that be?
Stacy Brown: That would be Select Books.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Specifically who was this issue discussed with?
Stacy Brown: Well, it was discussed not only with -- well, specifically at Select Books?
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes. And I mean by Mr. Jones himself.
Stacy Brown: We had -- well, I don't know that Bob discussed it with Select. But we discussed it with Simon & Schuster and Harper Collins in a conference call that we had. Bob discussed it with them. They discussed the entire -- the entire proposal that we put before them, and that included that.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. This e-mail that I showed you, 804 - I'll show it to you again just so you're familiar with what I'm talking about - references that, “The licking is going to be important because he did it in this case, too”. Can you tell me, what was the context of that remark?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; foundation; and calls for hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: What did you understand he was referring to when he said, “this case, too”?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; relevance.
The Court: Overruled. Excuse me. Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you stay abreast of the information in the media during the writing of this book?
Stacy Brown: Yeah, I had to. It's my job.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Did you -- did you check the Internet sources of news media?
Stacy Brown: Yeah. I look at different newspapers and news outlets throughout the country, and their take on what's going on as well.
Mr. Auchincloss: And on October 30th, 2004, had you ever heard of any kind of licking that had gone on in the case of People v. Michael Jackson that's presently before the Court?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; foundation; hearsay.
Mr. Auchincloss: In the media outlets.
Mr. Mesereau: Improper hearsay.
The Court: I guess I'm not sure where you're going with what his knowledge is of this case, how that relates to what Mr. Jones has said.
Mr. Auchincloss: Whether it had been reported in the media from another source - he says he kept abreast of all the media sources - or whether this was the first time he'd heard it.
The Court: All right. If you'll rephrase the question to relate to the relevance that you're describing.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: My question is this, Mr. Brown: When Mr. Jones wrote you this e-mail on October 30th, were you aware at that time that there was an allegation of licking in the case involving Gavin Arvizo and Mr. Jackson?
Stacy Brown: I can't say that --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: The objection is overruled.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Go ahead.
Stacy Brown: I can't say that I was, because I -- when Bob told me, it was the first that I'd heard of the incident. He had actually heard it first as it pertains to this case, and that's when -- that prompted him to share with me that it was going to be important.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, he says in that e-mail, “The licking is going to be important because he did it in this case, too”. Was that the first time you heard of the connection between the two --
Stacy Brown: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- cases? Had he talked to you about the licking before that?
Stacy Brown: We had started discussing --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; foundation; hearsay.
The Court: I'll overrule the objection. But the question is simply whether or not he discussed this with you before that e-mail.
Mr. Auchincloss: So that's a “yes” or “no”.
Stacy Brown: That particular e-mail?
Mr. Auchincloss: Yeah, before that e-mail.
Stacy Brown: The e-mail, no. The incident, yeah.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay, the incident. He discussed it before that e-mail?
Stacy Brown: Yeah.
Mr. Auchincloss: Has Mr. Jones ever indicated to you a fear of testifying in this case?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; relevance; calls for speculation; move to strike.
The Court: Sustained. The objection is sustained. Stricken.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was there a period of time when Mr. Jones all of a sudden began to have a loss of recollection or something of that nature regarding this licking incident?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; calls for speculation.
The Court: I'll sustain the objection as the question is too broad.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. At some time during your collaboration with Mr. Jones, did he ever try to deny his recollections about this licking incident?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; calls for speculation; relevance; foundation.
The Court: I'll overrule the objection. The question should be read back to the witness.
The Court Reporter: Okay. At some time during your collaboration with Mr. Jones, did he ever try to deny his recollections about this licking incident?
Stacy Brown: Yeah. He had fuzzy recollections about it, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was there --
The Court: Just a moment. We're going to take our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: All right. Go ahead.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Brown, where we left off, I was asking you about this period of time when Mr. Jones started to have some failure of recollection on the issue of head licking. When did that -- do you recall when that began or when that started?
Stacy Brown: It's been about a month or so now.
Mr. Auchincloss: Before that time, how many times had you been involved in a conversation where Mr. Jones talked about the head-licking incident?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; relevance.
The Court: Overruled.
Stacy Brown: I can't tell you exact number of times, but it was more than a couple.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And how would you describe this change in his recollection, if you can?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
Mr. Auchincloss: I can be more specific.
Mr. Mesereau: Relevance.
Mr. Auchincloss: My question goes to, was it an abrupt change, or was it something that occurred over a period of time, or something in between?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague; relevance; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Stacy Brown: I would say it was more abrupt than anything else.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you, Mr. Brown. I have no further questions.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, please, Your Honor.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning, Mr. Brown.
Stacy Brown: Good morning.
Mr. Mesereau: How long have you known Bob Jones?
Stacy Brown: The year Princess Diana died. I think it was '97.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And approximately when did he tell you he intended to write a book?
Stacy Brown: It was about January, a few months before he was terminated.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've been interviewed by the sheriffs in this case, right?
Stacy Brown: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told the sheriffs that Bob Jones told you he's broke and he needs to make some money, right?
Stacy Brown: That's what --
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you gone through different drafts with Mr. Jones?
Stacy Brown: Yes, I have.
Mr. Mesereau: On the issue of head licking, did Mr. Jones tell you at one point he had to make money on this book because he had financial problems?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Hearsay; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Stacy Brown: He didn't -- Mr. Mesereau, he didn't tell me that in relation to the head licking. That never came up in discussions of money.
Mr. Mesereau: But he told you he's broke and has to get paid for this book, correct?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Hearsay; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Stacy Brown: When we first started the book, he said he needs the money. He was just fired.
Mr. Mesereau: And he said he was broke, right?
Stacy Brown: Yes. That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the police you said he was broke, right?
Stacy Brown: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, how did -- how did the -- let me rephrase that. Obviously at some point you met with Bob Jones about writing a book, correct?
Stacy Brown: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did you meet with him?
Stacy Brown: Well, as I said earlier, he first approached me here at the court, back during the arraignment.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he tell you then he wanted to write something?
Stacy Brown: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's before he --
Stacy Brown: That's before his termination.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how long before his termination was that, do you think?
Stacy Brown: Well, it was January, so -- the termination was in June. So four, five months.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he tell you he was doing it secretly?
Stacy Brown: Well, he didn't say secretly, but he said -- obviously any process with a book, you don't want everyone to know this is what you are doing. I did, however, myself, tell members of the family, to get their thoughts on it, because that was my concern, what their thoughts may be with me doing a book with Bob Jones with -- chiefly it had to be about Michael Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, did Mr. Jones tell you he was talking to anyone from the sheriff's department?
Stacy Brown: Not at that time, no.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first learn that he had spoken to anyone from the sheriff's department?
Stacy Brown: I believe they first contacted him in December of last year.
Mr. Mesereau: And based on the prosecutor's questions to you, you must have learned at some point that Bob Jones was saying he couldn't really remember seeing any head licking, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: I'm sorry, I can't read the --
The Reporter: “Learned” instead of “render”.
The Court: All right. The objection is Overruled. You may answer.
Stacy Brown: Could you repeat it, sir?
Mr. Mesereau: I'll have it read back. May it be read back, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
The Court Reporter: And based on the prosecutor's questions to you, you must have learned at some point that Bob Jones was saying he couldn't really remember seeing any head licking, right?
Stacy Brown: Oh, I wouldn't say it was based on the prosecutor's -- that. I think it was simply when I spoke with him, he got a little nervous about that particular vein. I think he realized that it was going to become a part of this --
Mr. Mesereau: Well, did you and Mr. Jones discuss the fact that the Arvizos went to Larry Feldman, the same lawyer who represented the Chandlers?
Stacy Brown: The --
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Relevance; beyond the scope; and argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Has the name Larry Feldman come up in the book you're writing?
Mr. Auchincloss: Same objection.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Stacy Brown: Not by name, but certainly by title and by inference. Bob did say, based on his notes back in --
Mr. Mesereau: Well, just -- you just have to answer the question, okay? I'll get into that --
Stacy Brown: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: -- okay? Does the book concern this case in any respect?
Stacy Brown: I would think in some respects.
Mr. Mesereau: And is it your plan to market the book while this trial is going on?
Stacy Brown: Well, it all depends on when it's finished.
Mr. Mesereau: Has he ever talked to you about when he plans to complete the book?
Stacy Brown: Well, I have a lot of say in that, so we've talked about that, and we've always said we don't want it to be a rush job, and a lot of people want it to be a rush job. The publisher wants it to be a rush job.
Mr. Mesereau: The publisher wants it to be a rough job --
Stacy Brown: Rush job.
Mr. Mesereau: -- rush job because you can sell it better while the trial is going on, right?
Stacy Brown: Obviously, if it comes out now, it would probably pique some interest because it's Bob Jones, who, you know, has worked for Michael for so long, and it's Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, have you discussed the amount of money he might make on the book?
Stacy Brown: No, you know, we -- we've been made promises in the past. We don't listen to that. We don't even speculate on what can be made. Personally, I just enjoy writing, so, you know, the money aspect -- I think I do pretty well. It's not a big deal to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember you were interviewed by a Santa Barbara sheriff on December 7th, 2004?
Stacy Brown: Around about, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were approached by Sergeant Robel, right?
Stacy Brown: Uh-huh. Yes, that's correct. I'm sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: And the purpose of the interview was to talk to you about this alleged head-licking event, right?
Stacy Brown: I'm not sure if that was the purpose of the interview. We talked about various things back in December, but I'm not sure that was the purpose of it.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you remember Sergeant Robel wanted to know why you had said that Mr. Jones told you he saw Michael Jackson kiss Jordie, not lick his head?
Stacy Brown: Well, that's not exactly what -- that I remember Sergeant Robel putting to me. There was a question another investigator had had about whether I said he -- Bob said he licked or kissed him, and he wanted me to clarify that.
Mr. Mesereau: And you had told the investigator that based on your discussions with Bob Jones, he had said that Michael Jackson kissed Jordie one time, didn't lick his head, right?
Stacy Brown: No, I didn't say that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember you apologized?
Stacy Brown: No, no. What happened -- I apologized if it was confused. But what happened was, I think the investigator had misunderstood and that's what he was calling to clarify. That's one of the reasons why he called, to clarify exactly what I said. He said he didn't remember if I said “licking” or “kissing”.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me ask you if this is correct.
Stacy Brown: Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: “Brown apologized for the mistake. Said he had not realized that he told me he was kissing as opposed to licking”. Does that sound accurate to you?
Stacy Brown: It's probably accurate. But again, as I'm explaining to you, I explained to Sergeant Robel when he asked the question, when he asked me about that, I had told the other investigator, I think it was Zelis, I'm -- I'm not sure, but I think it was Paul Zelis, the investigator's name, and I think he was the one who had actually made the mistake or -- I won't even say “mistake”. He wanted to clarify, is that what I said.
Mr. Mesereau: Why did you apologize to him?
Stacy Brown: Well, I apologized for being polite. I mean, it's just a polite thing to do, you know. If I was wrong, I have no problems apologizing.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you're aware that Mr. Jones has indicated he doesn't remember head licking and has said he'd be lying to say that he did. Are you aware of that?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You're in the process of writing the section of the book that deals with this trip to Monaco, aren't you?
Stacy Brown: No. No, we're long since past that.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, Mr. Jones has indicated that he has not approved --
Stacy Brown: Everything that has --
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Argumentative; hearsay as to what Mr. Jones said; and misstates the evidence.
The Court: It's an incomplete question, too.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Jones has final approval over what's in that book, doesn't he?
Stacy Brown: Absolutely.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you agree that the more sensational the book, the better the chance of making money on it?
Stacy Brown: Well, obviously. I mean, we've been told things that nothing surprises them about Michael Jackson, so -- but it's not our intentions to write a book of scandal, if that's what you're inferring. It's certainly not mine, and I have to write it. And I have people in his family who I happen to love very much who I'm not going to disappoint.
Mr. Mesereau: They're not getting any money from the book, are they?
Stacy Brown: The family?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Stacy Brown: Why should they?
Mr. Mesereau: They're not getting any money from the book, are they?
Stacy Brown: I'm sorry to respond in that way. No.
Mr. Mesereau: The one who is going to make money is Bob Jones, who's broke, right?
Stacy Brown: We both will.
Mr. Mesereau: You're aware that Bob Jones was very upset when he was terminated, aren't you?
Stacy Brown: You know what? To be honest with you, he wasn't upset that he was terminated. He was upset in which the way Randy terminated him.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm not sure what that means.
Stacy Brown: Well, Bob had --
Mr. Mesereau: Referring to Randy Jackson, right?
Stacy Brown: Randy Jackson, I'm sorry. Bob had felt he'd been loyal to Michael for basically half of Michael's life, or most of Michael's life, I should say. And to get fired by a messenger, you know, I felt bad, too. In fact, I had spoke to someone in Michael's family about that. I said, “That's horrible”. But he was just upset in the method. He knew that eventually his time was going to be up just like everyone else's.
Mr. Mesereau: In the draft that you and Mr. Jones have written, Mr. Jones says on at least two occasions that he's never seen Michael Jackson act inappropriately with children, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Stacy Brown: Well, if it was the exact -- well, I don't remember the exact wording, but to say that he saw him molest anybody, no, it does not say he saw him molest anybody.
Mr. Mesereau: I have no further questions, Your Honor.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Jones (sic), I previously showed you People's Exhibit 803. Did Mr. Jones approve those two passages?
Stacy Brown: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Ask to move 803 into evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Hearsay; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Relevance.
Mr. Auchincloss: Offered as a prior inconsistent statement as to the first passage and a prior consistent statement as to the second.
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection.
The Court: The ruling remains the same.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Ask at this time to admit the two e-mails, Your Honor, Exhibits 804 and 805, into evidence at this time.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Hearsay; foundation; authenticity; relevance.
The Court: I'll take that up later.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Brown, you said that Mr. Jones was complaining about his finances on cross-examination.
Stacy Brown: Uh-huh. Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is this a frequent complaint?
Stacy Brown: Yeah, he's -- well, yeah, he's made a few complaints about that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was there a time when he stopped complaining about his finances during this period of collaboration?
Stacy Brown: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was what -- when -- when he stopped complaining about finances, tell me, was there any relationship in time to that point and the time in which he started to have this failure of recollection?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; vague; foundation.
The Court: I'll sustain vague.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you tell me approximately when in time Mr. Jones stopped complaining about his finances?
Stacy Brown: It's been about a month or so.
Mr. Auchincloss: And when in time did he start to have his failure of recollection?
Stacy Brown: About a month or so.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did they -- did both of those coincide in time?
Stacy Brown: I would say so, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you. I have no further questions.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Brown, what I think the prosecutor just elicited is the following: When he was broke, he said there was licking. And when he didn't have financial problems, he said there wasn't any, right?
Stacy Brown: Well, if that's how you --
Mr. Mesereau: Right?
Stacy Brown: -- break it down, yeah, I guess.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
Mr. Auchincloss: No further questions.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down. Would you give me Exhibits 804 and 805? Call your next witness.
Mr. Sneddon: June Chandler, Your Honor.
The Bailiff: She's on her way, Your Honor.
The Court: 804 and 805 are not admitted. Come forward, please. When you get to the witness stand here, remain standing. Face the clerk here and raise your right hand.
Message: JUNE CHANDLER Having been sworn, testified as follows:
June Chandler: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
June Chandler: June Chandler. J-u-n-e; C-h-a-n-d-l-e-r.
The Clerk: Thank you.
June Chandler: You're welcome.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Good morning, Mrs. Chandler.
June Chandler: Good morning.
Mr. Sneddon: I want to go back in time a little bit to around 1992 and '93, okay?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And are you related in some fashion to Jordan Chandler?
June Chandler: Yes. He is my son.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And we're going -- you know, I should have done this before we started.
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: You have to lean right into that microphone so everybody can hear what you have to say. We've had the same problem with everybody, so it's not just you.
June Chandler: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: You have a very soft voice, so you keep it up, all right?
June Chandler: Okay. I will.
Mr. Sneddon: Let me start all over again and ask you again. Are you related to Jordan Chandler?
June Chandler: Yes, I am. He is my son.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you have any other sons or daughters?
June Chandler: Yes, I have a daughter.
Mr. Sneddon: And her name?
June Chandler: Lily Chandler.
Mr. Sneddon: And how old is Lily right now?
June Chandler: 17 years old.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, in 1992 and 1993, were you married?
June Chandler: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sneddon: And to whom were you married?
June Chandler: To David Schwartz.
Mr. Sneddon: And is David Schwartz the father of either of your children?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Which one?
June Chandler: Lily Chandler.
Mr. Sneddon: And prior to your marriage with David Schwartz, you were married to Evan Chandler, correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And Evan Chandler is the father of Jordan Chandler?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: What is Jordan's date of birth?
June Chandler: January 11th, 1980.
Mr. Sneddon: And to your knowledge, had -- by the time of the events in 1992 and '93, had Evan Chandler remarried?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you know his wife or did you know his wife at that time?
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And her name is?
June Chandler: Natalie Chandler.
Mr. Sneddon: And did they have any other children?
June Chandler: Yes, they did.
Mr. Sneddon: And the child's name?
June Chandler: Nicky Chandler. And Emmanuelle Chandler.
Mr. Sneddon: And at the time of 1992 and 1993, can you give us the approximate ages of those children?
June Chandler: As best as I can recall, seven and four.
Mr. Sneddon: And who is the oldest?
June Chandler: Nicky Chandler, the son.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, I want to show you some photographs. The first photograph we have that's marked is 793, the next one is 794, and the next one is 795, okay? The first one, 793, I'll ask you if you recognize the person depicted in that photograph?
June Chandler: No, I do not.
Mr. Sneddon: Have you ever seen that person before?
June Chandler: Not that I recall.
Mr. Sneddon: And I want to show you a photograph marked as 794, or Exhibit 794. Do you recognize the people depicted in that photograph?
June Chandler: Not that I recall.
Mr. Sneddon: Neither the top nor the bottom?
June Chandler: He might look familiar.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And the bottom photograph?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to Exhibit No. 795, do you recognize any of the people depicted in that photograph?
June Chandler: I recall this boy and Michael Jackson.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. “This boy” meaning the person on the far left-hand side of the Exhibit 795?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall the boy's name?
June Chandler: Brett Barnes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall where you saw Mr. Barnes, or the child Barnes?
June Chandler: At Neverland.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So with regard to the Photographs 793, 794 and 795, none of those photographs are pictures of your son, correct?
June Chandler: No. No.
Mr. Sneddon: I want to show you 776; ask you if you recognize that photograph?
June Chandler: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And who is that?
June Chandler: That's my son.
Mr. Sneddon: Your son?
June Chandler: Jordan.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Thank you. Your Honor, with the Court's permission, I'd like to publish these just so the jury knows what the witness has testified to.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And we're going to do it on the Elmo, Your Honor. So if we could have that. All right, Gordon?
Mr. Sneddon: All right. The photograph that's on the board that's 793 is an exhibit of the child with the long black hair. And that is not your son, Jordan Chandler?
June Chandler: No, it's not.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And the next exhibit would be 794. And specifically I'm going to direct your attention to the child sitting on the floor with the arrow drawn up to him. Do you recognize that child?
June Chandler: Barely.
Mr. Sneddon: Who do you think that -- when you say “barely”, who do you recognize --
June Chandler: I would say it's probably a younger photo of the boy above.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recognize who the boy above in that photograph is?
June Chandler: I think that's Brett Barnes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And the last photo is 795. And you indicated the child on the far left-hand side of the photograph; is that correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: The child with the hat next to Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: Correct. That's Brett Barnes.
Mr. Sneddon: That's Brett Barnes. All right. Thank you. And lastly, the photograph marked as 776, you've identified that as your child, Jordan, correct?
June Chandler: My son Jordan.
Mr. Sneddon: Your son Jordan?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Thank you. We can have the lights again, Your Honor. Now, Mrs. Chandler, do you recognize the defendant in this case, Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And have you been in Mr. Jackson's presence before?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, your son Jordan, did you have -- let me go back in time. Did you have an occasion where you actually met Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes, I had an occasion.
Mr. Sneddon: For the first time?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury, where did that occur?
June Chandler: That occurred at my ex-husband's employment, Rent-A-Wreck.
Mr. Sneddon: And where is that located?
June Chandler: In West L.A.
Mr. Sneddon: And was -- do you remember about approximately when that occurred?
June Chandler: It was in the summer of '92. Late summer.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you actually at the -- your husband's place of business when Mr. Jackson showed up?
June Chandler: After he showed up, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. You received a telephone call from someone?
June Chandler: Yes, from my ex-husband.
Mr. Sneddon: And by the way, your ex-husband's name is what?
June Chandler: David Schwartz.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever take Mr. Schwartz's last name?
June Chandler: No, I did not.
Mr. Sneddon: So you've always been June Chandler?
June Chandler: I've always been June Chandler.
Mr. Sneddon: So you received a telephone call and then you went down to his place of business?
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to your son Jordan, did Jordan go with you?
June Chandler: Yes, he did.
Mr. Sneddon: Was Mr. Jackson there?
June Chandler: Yes, he was.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall how long you were with Mr. Jackson and Jordan that day?
June Chandler: Briefly. Five minutes. Ten minutes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did -- was there any information exchanged between you and Mr. Jackson that day?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what was that?
June Chandler: I said, “If you would like to see Jordie or if he could call you or if you'd like to speak to him, here is our number, and you can give him a call”.
Mr. Sneddon: And you gave that to Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, let me go back in time. Before this meeting that you had at your husband's place of business in 1992, had Jordan ever expressed, to your knowledge, some admiration for Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: Oh, very much so, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: How did he display that admiration?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Sneddon: I didn't ask for a statement, Your Honor. I asked for a display.
The Court: All right. He's not asking for anything that was said. Do you understand the question?
June Chandler: Would you repeat the question, please?
Mr. Sneddon: Yes. How did your son Jordan, prior to this meeting that occurred at David Schwartz's place of business, express -- display his admiration for Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: He had a little sparkly jacket that he would wear to parties. He would have a glove like Michael Jackson, and dance around like Michael Jackson.
Mr. Sneddon: And this was all before he met Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: Before he met Michael Jackson, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, after the incident occurred where there was an exchange where you gave Mr. Jackson your telephone number -- and let me go back and ask you a question about that. Was the telephone number you gave him your home number?
June Chandler: Yes, it was.
Mr. Sneddon: Did -- to your knowledge, did Mr. Jackson ever call your son Jordan?
June Chandler: Yes, he did.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall, for the ladies and gentlemen of the jury, approximately what the time span was from the incident that occurred at your ex-husband's place of business to the time that Mr. Jackson actually called your son?
June Chandler: To the best of my recollection, it could have been a month or two after our first meeting with Michael Jackson at Rent-A-Wreck.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you actually in the room when Mr. Jackson called?
June Chandler: I don't recall being in the room, but I might have been.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall at some time visiting Neverland Ranch?
June Chandler: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall approximately when that occurred?
June Chandler: I recall around February.
Mr. Sneddon: Of?
June Chandler: 1993.
Mr. Sneddon: 1993?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: So what I want to ask you is, between the time that Mr. Jackson started calling your son to the time that you went to Neverland Ranch, can you give the jury some idea of the number of times Mr. Jackson called your son Jordan?
June Chandler: To the best of my recollection --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you present in the house when these conversations occurred?
June Chandler: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you sometimes answer the phone?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And Mr. Jackson was on the line?
June Chandler: Yes, he was.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you also present in the house during the time to observe the length of the conversations between your son and Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sneddon: On more than one occasion?
June Chandler: Absolutely.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. So based upon your observations and the things that you saw and the things that you heard, give us an estimate of the number of times, that you know of, that Mr. Jackson called your son Jordan.
June Chandler: I would say eight to ten times.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to those conversations in which you have personal knowledge of the length of time, could you give the jury some idea of how long these conversations lasted?
June Chandler: It was from maybe ten minutes, to an hour, or an hour and a half. It progressed. It got longer and longer.
Mr. Sneddon: Could you describe to the jury what your son's reaction was to these phone calls?
June Chandler: He was excited to hear from him. They were talking about things that interested Jordie, so, um --
Mr. Sneddon: In those occasions where you picked up the phone and you talked to Mr. Jackson, did he tell you where he was?
June Chandler: No, he didn't tell me. No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, how is it that you and Jordan ended up going to Neverland Valley Ranch for the first time?
June Chandler: We were invited to go to Neverland, because during those conversations, Michael Jackson said, “Would you like to come to visit? When I am finished touring”, he was doing a European tour, I think, he said we can come and visit. And my son was very excited to be able to go up there and see Neverland.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, the first time you went to Neverland, you told the jury it was sometime in February of 1993. How did you get there?
June Chandler: I drove.
Mr. Sneddon: And who went with you besides Jordan, if anyone?
June Chandler: My daughter Lily.
Mr. Sneddon: And at this point in time, how old was Lily?
June Chandler: Was seven, I think. Seven or eight.
Mr. Sneddon: And Jordan was born in 1980, so he was 13 years old at the time you made the first visit, correct?
June Chandler: 12, 13, yes. Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall whether it was during the week or on a weekend that you visited?
June Chandler: On a weekend.
Mr. Sneddon: During the time that you were -- during this first visit, do you recall how many days you were there?
June Chandler: Oh, two nights.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So two nights and at least two days and possibly a third day?
June Chandler: Two nights. There was not a third day.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you stay while you were at the ranch?
June Chandler: Guest cottage.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did you personally stay?
June Chandler: The guest cottages at Neverland.
Mr. Sneddon: And was there somebody in your cottage with you?
June Chandler: Yes, my daughter and my son.
Mr. Sneddon: So Jordan stayed with you and Lily in the same cottage?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And was this during the entire length of this first visit?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And while you were at the ranch during the first visit, did you see Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes, we did.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you spend time with Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you spend a lot of time with Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you say, “Yes, I did”, can you tell us about what Jordan and Lily did?
June Chandler: We were all either taking rides on the Ferris wheel, playing video games. Jordie and Michael were playing video games. I was watching. Lily was playing. We looked at his animals that he had. Just different things that were at Neverland.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And I think you've described that as being an amazing weekend?
June Chandler: Yes. Fun.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, during the time that you were there on this first visit, do you recall whether or not you went with Mr. Jackson to a business called Toys-R-Us?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And could you tell us about that?
June Chandler: I guess it was after hours, after Toys-R-Us closed, and Michael said, “Jordie and Lily, you get to go shopping and buy toys, get toys”. So we went and --
Mr. Sneddon: When you say “we went”, who's “we”?
June Chandler: Lily and Jordie and Michael and I went. And they had fun. They were shopping and Michael bought lots of things for them. They picked out stuff, and they were showered with great presents from Toys-R-Us.
Mr. Sneddon: And Mr. Jackson paid for all of that?
June Chandler: I -- yes, he did.
Mr. Sneddon: You didn't, right?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, after you left Neverland Valley Ranch after this first visit, did you ever go back to Neverland Valley Ranch?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall how much time elapsed between the first time you went there and the second time you went back?
June Chandler: It could be a week later or two weeks after.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you went back the second time, do you recall how you got there?
June Chandler: I -- to the best of my recollection, I was picked up by Michael Jackson.
Mr. Sneddon: When you say “picked up by Michael Jackson”, in what form of transportation was that?
June Chandler: In his car, limo.
Mr. Sneddon: And who else was with you when you got picked up? I mean, from your family. Let's start that way first.
June Chandler: It was Lily, my daughter, and Jordan.
Mr. Sneddon: So the three of you?
June Chandler: My son.
Mr. Sneddon: The three of you went back to the ranch?
June Chandler: Right.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there anybody else in the limo that you recall with Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: Well --
Mr. Sneddon: Let me go back and make something clear.
June Chandler: Sure.
Mr. Sneddon: Was Mr. Jackson actually in the limo himself?
June Chandler: Yes, he was.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, let's ask the question --
June Chandler: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- was there anybody else in the limo other than Mr. Jackson and the three of you?
June Chandler: Yes, there was Brett Barnes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall where Mr. -- where the child Brett -- let me ask you this: With regard to Brett Barnes, can you estimate about approximately what age you felt Brett Barnes was at this point?
June Chandler: 11. 10, 11.
Mr. Sneddon: So he was a child?
June Chandler: He was a child.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was Brett Barnes in the car in relationship to Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: Sitting next to Michael Jackson.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, on the second visit you went to the ranch, do you recall how long you stayed?
June Chandler: A weekend.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you spend time -- did you personally spend time with Mr. Jackson that weekend?
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Jordan spend time with him that weekend?
June Chandler: Yes, he did.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you see Brett Barnes around there that weekend?
June Chandler: Yes. I don't really remember, but yes, he was there, too. Yes, he was enjoying that time also.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you personally sleep during your stay, the second visit to Neverland Valley Ranch?
June Chandler: Guest cottages.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did Lily stay?
June Chandler: In the guest cottages.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did your son Jordan stay?
June Chandler: In the guest cottages.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, the guest cottages are all located in one general area, correct?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: They're all sort of connected into one building?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to that building, did you ever see Brett Barnes anywhere around the building and the cottages?
June Chandler: Not that I recall.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, how did you get home from Neverland on this second visit?
June Chandler: We were driven home.
Mr. Sneddon: In a limo?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Was Mr. Jackson present?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there ever an occasion where you went to Disneyland?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall when that happened in relationship to like either one of these first, second visits?
June Chandler: That could have been that weekend, the second weekend that we were at Neverland that we went -- instead of going to Los Angeles, we went to Anaheim, to Disneyland. It could have been that weekend.
Mr. Sneddon: And who all went to Disneyland?
June Chandler: I remember Jordan, Lily, Michael and I, and perhaps Brett.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you ever have an occasion to visit Neverland Valley Ranch again?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember approximately how much time elapsed between the second visit and the third visit?
June Chandler: It could have been a week. A weekend.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you went to the ranch on this third occasion, was Mr. Jackson present?
June Chandler: Yes, he was.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you sleep?
June Chandler: In the guest cottages.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did Lily sleep?
June Chandler: In the guest cottages.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did Jordan sleep?
June Chandler: In the guest cottages.
Mr. Sneddon: At some point in time during any one of these three visits to -- these three visits you've described to the jury, did your son request to sleep in Mr. Jackson's bedroom?
June Chandler: Yes --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
June Chandler: -- he did.
The Court: Overruled. Next question.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall during which one of the visits it was that the request came?
June Chandler: Oh, the third visit.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you allow him to do that?
June Chandler: No, I did not.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you notice -- I may not have asked this with regard to the third visit, but you indicated in at least the first visit that Jordan slept with you in your guest cottage, correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: In the second visit, did Jordan sleep with you in your guest cottage?
June Chandler: Yes, he did.
Mr. Sneddon: And the third visit, did Jordan sleep with you in your guest cottage?
June Chandler: Yes, he did.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you notice anything with regard to what time of the day or night it was that Jordan finally came to your cottage to go to bed?
June Chandler: I assume it was late, after eleven o'clock.
Mr. Sneddon: Why do you assume that?
June Chandler: Because they were playing all day and all night. And it was a weekend. He did not have school, so he was allowed to stay up later than 11:00.
Mr. Sneddon: During any of your visits to Neverland Valley Ranch, did you ever meet any children from New Jersey?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember their names?
June Chandler: Frankie and Eddie.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to Frankie at this point in time, do you recall approximately how old Frankie was?
June Chandler: Around the same age as Jordan, or maybe younger.
Mr. Sneddon: And how about Eddie?
June Chandler: I don't recall. I don't know which one is which.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall their last name at all?
June Chandler: Cascio.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember which one of the visits to the ranch was it that you met Frank Cascio?
June Chandler: No, I don't.
Mr. Sneddon: Was there -- was there some point in time when you took a trip with Mr. Jackson to Las Vegas?
June Chandler: Yes, there was.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember when that trip occurred? Just approximately what month, for instance?
June Chandler: The end of March.
Mr. Sneddon: Of 1993?
June Chandler: Of '93. Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me, my allergies are acting up today. How did you get to Las Vegas?
June Chandler: By jet, private jet.
Mr. Sneddon: And who was with you on the jet?
June Chandler: My son Jordan, Lily, myself and Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you got to Las Vegas, where did you stay, what hotel?
June Chandler: The Mirage Hotel.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you got to The Mirage Hotel, do you remember what time of day or night it was?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember how long you stayed in Las Vegas on this occasion?
June Chandler: Two or three nights.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you got to Las Vegas, did you have -- obviously you had a room --
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: -- in The Mirage. And who was in your room when you first got there? Who was staying in your room?
June Chandler: Jordan, myself, Lily and Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: All in the same room?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did those arrangements change at any point in time?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when did they change?
June Chandler: The second night things changed.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to “things changed”, could you tell me what changed first?
June Chandler: Well, there were approximately three bedrooms in that suite at the Mirage Hotel. Lily and I were staying in one bedroom, Jordie had another bedroom, and Michael had another bedroom. The second night, they were going to see a performance, Cirque du Soleil performance.
Mr. Sneddon: “They” meaning who?
June Chandler: Jordie and Michael --
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
June Chandler: -- and Lily and I. It was around 11 p.m. at night, and I got a call from somebody at Cirque du Soleil saying, “Where is Michael?” And I said, “He should be there with my son”. They said, “He's not here”. A little while later, another call, he still didn't show up. They still did not show up. And I -- there's a knock on the door and it's Michael and Jordan, and they came back into the suite. Michael --
Mr. Sneddon: Now, let me stop you right there, okay?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: About what time is it when your son Jordan and the defendant in this case, Mr. Jackson, showed up?
June Chandler: Well, I think the performance started at 11:00, and I would say Jordan and Michael showed up around 11:30.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, could you describe for the jury Mr. Jackson's demeanor at the time that they came back to the room?
June Chandler: He was sobbing. He was crying, shaking, trembling.
Mr. Sneddon: Michael Jackson was?
June Chandler: He was.
Mr. Sneddon: And what about your son's demeanor?
June Chandler: He was quiet.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at that point in time, did Mr. Jackson tell you why he was upset or crying?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Tell the jury what he said.
June Chandler: He said, “You don't trust me? We're a family. Why are you doing this? Why are you not allowing Jordie to be with me?” And I said, “He is with you”. He said, “But my bedroom. Why not in my bedroom? We fall asleep, the kids have fun. Boys” --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; narrative.
The Court: Narrative; sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Tell us what - Mr. Jackson said that he wanted your son to sleep with him in his bed - what you said to Mr. Jackson.
June Chandler: What I said to Michael was, “This is not” -- “This is not anything that I want. This is not right. Jordie should be able to do what he wants to do. He should be able to fall asleep where he wants to sleep”.
Mr. Sneddon: Is this you talking or Mr. Jackson speaking?
June Chandler: I was saying this. And Michael was trembling and saying, “We're a family. Jordie is having fun. Why can't he sleep in my bed? There's nothing wrong. There's nothing going on. Don't you trust me?”
Mr. Sneddon: All right. How long do you think this conversation lasted between you and Mr. Jackson over where Jordan was going to sleep that night?
June Chandler: I would say 20 to 30, 40 minutes.
Mr. Sneddon: So it was a back-and-forth conversation; is that right?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall how many times during that conversation that Mr. Jackson emphasized the fact that you didn't trust him?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
June Chandler: No, I don't recall how many times --
The Court: Just a moment.
June Chandler: I'm sorry.
The Court: Overruled. Go ahead. You may answer.
Mr. Sneddon: Go ahead.
June Chandler: I don't recall how many times.
Mr. Sneddon: Was it on more than one occasion?
June Chandler: Absolutely, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Was it on many occasions?
June Chandler: Quite a few.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember how many times during the conversation that Mr. Jackson emphasized to you that you were family?
June Chandler: Many times.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you at some point in time relent and allow your son to sleep with Michael Jackson in his bedroom?
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And was it after that discussion on that night?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that the first occasion?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: When you were in Las Vegas, do you remember how many of the nights in Las Vegas that your son Jordan slept with the defendant, Michael Jackson, in Michael Jackson's room?
June Chandler: I would say two occasions.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at some point in time after you had agreed to let your son Jordan sleep with Mr. Jackson, were you the recipient of a gift from Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you describe that to the jury?
June Chandler: It was a gold bracelet, and it was given to me by Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: And you say “a gold bracelet”. Had you seen that gold bracelet in a shop of some kind before?
June Chandler: I had seen it before, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the brand name on that bracelet?
June Chandler: Cartier.
Mr. Sneddon: Was it expensive, to your knowledge?
June Chandler: Oh, I -- yes, it was.
Mr. Sneddon: When was it you received this gift in relationship to having agreed to allow your son to sleep in bed with Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: I think it was the next evening when we were attending a show, a magic show, by David Copperfield.
Mr. Sneddon: Mrs. Chandler, do you recall after Las Vegas where you went, where you personally and Jordan went? When you came back from Vegas, where did you go; do you recall?
June Chandler: After Vegas, I -- it could be back to Disneyland, back to Neverland, or home. I'm not exactly certain.
Mr. Sneddon: Was Mr. Jackson with you wherever it was that you went? Did he go back with you, in other words?
June Chandler: Yes, he did.
Mr. Sneddon: And did Mr. Jackson continue to spend his nights with your son in the same room, in the same bed, from Las Vegas, from that point on?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Were there other visits to Neverland Valley Ranch after you came back from Las Vegas?
June Chandler: Yes, there were.
Mr. Sneddon: And were there occasions when your son went up to the ranch where you and Lily did not accompany him to the ranch?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember on how many such occasions?
June Chandler: I would say two or three times.
Mr. Sneddon: And were there occasions also where you and Lily and Jordan also went up to the ranch after Las Vegas?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And on those occasions when you went up to the ranch after Las Vegas, where did you stay?
June Chandler: I stayed in the guest cottages.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did Lily stay?
June Chandler: In the guest cottages.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did Jordan stay?
June Chandler: In Michael Jackson's bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: Were there ever any occasions that you recall where you actually, when you got to the ranch, that you would take Jordan's suitcase in and take it into Mr. Jackson's bedroom and leave it there?
June Chandler: Possibly.
Mr. Sneddon: So you knew that he was going to be spending the night with Michael Jackson in Michael Jackson's bedroom at this point in time?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, were there occasions after you got back from Las Vegas -- let me -- where Mr. Jackson actually was invited to stay at your residence where you lived at this point in time?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, what city was it that you lived in at this time?
June Chandler: Santa Monica.
Mr. Sneddon: We're talking about 1993, in the spring, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Where did you live?
June Chandler: Santa Monica.
Mr. Sneddon: And at this point in time, was Mr. Schwartz living with you?
June Chandler: No, he wasn't.
Mr. Sneddon: So in the household was there anybody besides you and Jordan and Lily?
June Chandler: My housekeeper.
Mr. Sneddon: And was that a full-time housekeeper?
June Chandler: Yes, she was.
Mr. Sneddon: 24 hours a day?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did she live in the house?
June Chandler: Yes, she did. She was a live-in.
Mr. Sneddon: That's what I meant. Sorry. Clumsy question. And during this time, did Mr. Jackson ever spend the night at your residence?
June Chandler: Yes, he did.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall on how many occasions Mr. Jackson spent the night at your residence?
June Chandler: I would say more than 30 times.
Mr. Sneddon: And were some of those occasions on consecutive days or nights?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And how long consecutively do you think that that occurred?
June Chandler: Oh. It could be a week or two at a time.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did Mr. Jackson stay in the house?
June Chandler: In Jordan's bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: Are there more than one bed in that room?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Sneddon: I am assuming that Jordan was going to school during this period of time.
June Chandler: He was.
Mr. Sneddon: So Mr. Jackson would spend the night there. What would happen when Jordan would go to school? To your knowledge, what did Mr. Jackson do?
June Chandler: Michael would leave.
Mr. Sneddon: And approximately what time would he return?
June Chandler: After Jordan came home from school.
Mr. Sneddon: And so was this the routine that was followed during the time that Mr. Jackson was staying at your residence?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever -- have you ever been to Disney World --
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- in Orlando, Florida?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And have you been to Disney World with the defendant in this case, Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember approximately when it was that you went to Disney World with Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: I would say in May.
Mr. Sneddon: Of '93?
June Chandler: Of '93.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you went to Disney World with Mr. Jackson, who else went with you?
June Chandler: Jordan and Lily.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall where you stayed?
June Chandler: I recall The Grand Floridian was one hotel.
Mr. Sneddon: And during the time that -- do you remember how many days -- did you go there on more than one occasion?
June Chandler: Yes, we did.
Mr. Sneddon: How many occasions?
June Chandler: Twice.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall what the sleeping arrangements were on the first occasion?
June Chandler: Jordie was with Michael and Lily was with me.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you say “with Michael” --
June Chandler: In Michael's bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, during the time that you visited Disney World in Orlando, would you describe the nature of the relationship that was going on, that you observed personally, between the defendant in this case, Michael Jackson, and your son Jordan?
June Chandler: The behavior, you say?
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah.
June Chandler: The behavior with my son was he was not wanting to be with Lily and I anymore, and he was just with Michael the whole time, and he wasn't too happy. Just -- well, I couldn't -- I didn't have any communication with him really.
Mr. Sneddon: Was this something that you observed for the first time in Orlando or was this something that you began to observe over a period of time?
June Chandler: It was a period of time, and it gradually happened.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you notice any change in your son --
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- Jordan?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What was the nature of the change?
June Chandler: Well, he started dressing like Michael. He started acting withdrawn, sort of smart-alecky. Not as sweet as he normally was. And withdrawn. He just didn't want to be with us, Lily and I.
Mr. Sneddon: Had you always been close prior to that?
June Chandler: Extremely close.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you -- I think you answered this, but just in case, how many days did you think you were in Florida?
June Chandler: Oh, I don't really remember, but it's probably more than two nights. Two, three nights.
Mr. Sneddon: And after you came back from Florida, do you recall where you went?
June Chandler: After that, I think the next trip was to Monaco.
Mr. Sneddon: In between the time that you went to Florida and to Monaco, do you recall where you were -- where you were personally staying?
June Chandler: No. I guess home.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember how much time elapsed between the two trips?
June Chandler: Not really, no.
Mr. Sneddon: Was it more than a month, more than a week? Obviously it was more than a day or so.
June Chandler: Yes. It was a couple -- it could be three weeks.
Mr. Sneddon: And during that time when you got back from Florida till the time that you left for Monaco, were you with Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: At times.
Mr. Sneddon: And the times that you were with Mr. Jackson, was Jordan with Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when he's with Mr. Jackson, where did he sleep?
June Chandler: With Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know somebody by the name of Joy Robson?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know somebody by the name of Wade Robson?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall where it was that you met Joy Robson?
June Chandler: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: Where was that?
June Chandler: That was at Neverland, one of the visits.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall when it was that you met Wade Robson?
June Chandler: One of the visits to Neverland.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall approximately which visit it would have been or what month it would have been that you met these individuals?
June Chandler: It could have been my third visit to Neverland.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you meet them on more than one occasion?
June Chandler: I met Wade on more than one occasion, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And how many times did you meet Joy Robson?
June Chandler: One.
Mr. Sneddon: One occasion?
June Chandler: That I remember.
Mr. Sneddon: There were occasions when Wade Robson was there that the mother was not there?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you've indicated to the jury on at least one occasion, perhaps two, that Brett Barnes was also at Neverland Valley Ranch?
June Chandler: Yes, he was there too.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you ever meet Brett Barnes' mother?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Sneddon: So he was at the ranch by himself also?
June Chandler: Oh, yes. Yes, he was.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever meet a Mr. Robson, the father?
June Chandler: No. No, not that I remember.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever meet a Mr. Barnes at any point?
June Chandler: Not that I remember, no.
Mr. Sneddon: So no fathers in the picture?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, prior to the time that you met Joe Robson for the first time - okay? --
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- on your visit to Neverland Valley Ranch, did you have a discussion with the defendant in this case, Mr. Jackson, with regard to some warnings that Mr. Jackson gave you about Joy Robson?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What did Mr. Jackson tell you?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance.
Mr. Sneddon: I think it's an admission of Mr. Jackson with regard to the relationship with the boys.
Mr. Mesereau: Relevance and hearsay.
The Court: I'm not sure what you're trying to introduce. I'm searching my memory for that. I don't know, maybe you should approach with counsel.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you, Your Honor. (Discussion held off the record at sidebar.)
Mr. Sneddon: Mrs. Chandler?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, you had a conversation with Mr. Jackson, is that correct?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at the time -- and please do not tell us what was said, but did you subsequently have a conversation with Miss Robson --
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: -- wade's mother?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, after that conversation, did you develop any concerns about some of the things that she had told you?
June Chandler: I --
Mr. Sneddon: I think you have to answer that “yes” or “no”. We don't want to get into what she said.
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to that particular conversation, let me ask you this: Had you been invited by the defendant in this case, Mr. Jackson, to go on a tour with him, you and Jordan?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And where were you invited by Mr. Jackson to go on a tour?
June Chandler: I don't know where the tour was going. I guess a world tour somewhere in the summertime.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know where Miss Robson, Mrs. Robson, was from, what country?
June Chandler: Australia.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know whether one of the stops on that tour was going to be Australia?
June Chandler: I think it was, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Let's talk a little bit about your trip to France.
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall approximately when that was?
June Chandler: I think the middle of May.
Mr. Sneddon: And how did you get there?
June Chandler: We flew.
Mr. Sneddon: And was it on a charter or a commercial airline?
June Chandler: Commercial airline.
Mr. Sneddon: And you say “we”, so could you tell us who it was that you went with?
June Chandler: My daughter, my son and Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you got to France, where in France did you stay?
June Chandler: Monaco.
Mr. Sneddon: And how long were you in Monaco?
June Chandler: Approximately four days.
Mr. Sneddon: And during the time that you were there, where did your son Jordan sleep?
June Chandler: In Michael Jackson's bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you ever go into that bedroom?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And were they in bed together on occasion?
June Chandler: On occasion, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, during the time that you were in Monaco, did you do any shopping?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And how was it that you -- well, let me put it this way: Who went shopping with you?
June Chandler: My daughter.
Mr. Sneddon: You and Lily?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And how many days did you do that?
June Chandler: Oh. One day.
Mr. Sneddon: And who was paying for the --
June Chandler: Michael was.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry?
June Chandler: Michael was.
Mr. Sneddon: And how did he arrange that?
June Chandler: I think I was given a credit card, his credit card.
Mr. Sneddon: So you went shopping in Monaco on Michael Jackson's credit card, you and your daughter?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, during this trip, did either your son or Mr. Jackson get ill?
June Chandler: Yes, they both did.
Mr. Sneddon: They had the flu?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And were they in the room together the entire time?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you went to France, did you go to any other country, any other places in France, other than Monte Carlo?
June Chandler: We also went to Euro Disney outside of Paris.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall how long you were there?
June Chandler: A couple of days.
Mr. Sneddon: Again, when you say “we”, you're talking about Jordan and Lily, and was the defendant with you?
June Chandler: Yes, he was.
Mr. Sneddon: And you say you spent a couple of days. Where did Jordan sleep?
June Chandler: With Michael Jackson.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, do you have a brother?
June Chandler: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: What's your brother's name?
June Chandler: I have two brothers.
Mr. Sneddon: What are their names?
June Chandler: Steven Wong and Dale Wong.
Mr. Sneddon: And was there a time when one of your brothers -- where do they live? Let's go that way.
June Chandler: One lives in Los Angeles. And the other lives back east in New Jersey.
Mr. Sneddon: And was there a time when you went back east for a family wedding?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember about what month that was?
June Chandler: That was in September.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall who it was who was getting married?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who was that?
June Chandler: That was my brother Steve and his wife.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you went back for the wedding, what city did you go to?
June Chandler: We went to New York City.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you went back there, who went with you?
June Chandler: My son, my daughter, and myself.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you first got there, where did you stay?
June Chandler: We stayed in a hotel.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember the name of the hotel?
June Chandler: Yes, The Rega Royal Hotel.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you know who made the arrangements for that hotel?
June Chandler: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: Who was that?
June Chandler: Norma Stakos.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you know who Mrs. Stakos is? Had you had prior dealings with Mrs. Stakos?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: On a number of occasions?
June Chandler: Telephone conversations only.
Mr. Sneddon: And who did she work for?
June Chandler: She worked for Michael Jackson.
Mr. Sneddon: And so she made the reservations for you at the hotel?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: When did you learn that Mr. Jackson was going to be with you in New York? Before or after you left?
June Chandler: Before.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember how many days before you learned that?
June Chandler: Not really, no. I don't remember.
Mr. Sneddon: On the day of the actual wedding, was Mr. Jackson there?
June Chandler: No, he was not.
Mr. Sneddon: When did he show up in relationship to the wedding?
June Chandler: After the wedding.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember how many days he showed up, how many days later?
June Chandler: It could be two days later.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when Mr. Jackson got there, did you see him?
June Chandler: That evening briefly.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, had something happened during the time that you were in New York with your son Jordan before Mr. Jackson arrived which caused some problems in the family?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading and vague.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What was it?
June Chandler: Jordan was spending too much time with Michael. I was getting upset. My brother was also with me, and he was saying --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Sneddon: Don't tell us what he said, but --
June Chandler: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- could you describe his demeanor to us?
June Chandler: Jordan was not with us. He didn't want to be with us. He was very -- he was sullen.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, during this time, Mr. Jackson was not there, correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And to your knowledge, from your own personal knowledge, were Mr. Jackson and your son Jordan in communication with each other during this period of time?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: By what method?
June Chandler: Telephone.
Mr. Sneddon: And the frequency?
June Chandler: Often. Often. Long conversations.
Mr. Sneddon: And was your brother upset by the situation, too?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Sneddon: Could you describe to the -- describe your brother's reaction to this situation that was -- that existed between Mr. Jackson and your son Jordan.
June Chandler: Yes. My brother was happy for Jordan, but he didn't like that Jordie was just spending time with Michael and not with his family.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when Mr. Jackson showed up in New York, do you recall where he was staying?
June Chandler: Yes, he was staying across the hallway from my room.
Mr. Sneddon: And when Michael Jackson showed up, where did Jordan sleep?
June Chandler: When Michael Jackson showed up, he slept in Michael's room.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when Mr. Jackson showed up the first night, was there an incident that occurred in your room?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
June Chandler: My room?
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah.
June Chandler: Yes, there was an incident.
Mr. Sneddon: You have to wait till the Judge rules.
The Court: Overruled. You can answer.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay, you can answer now.
June Chandler: Yes, there was an incident.
Mr. Sneddon: Who was involved in the incident?
June Chandler: My daughter Lily --
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
June Chandler: -- Michael and Jordan.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you got back to your particular room, did you notice any damage in the room?
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And what was damaged?
June Chandler: I noticed there was damage in the morning. There were two lamps that were broken.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you at some point talk to Mr. Jackson about what had happened the night before?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to that conversation, did it involve Jordan?
June Chandler: Yes, it did.
Mr. Sneddon: And did it involve you?
June Chandler: Yes, it did.
Mr. Sneddon: And did it involve Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes, it did.
Mr. Sneddon: And the relationship between the two or three of you?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you tell the jury what the conversation was about?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection to the extent it calls for hearsay.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, this involves the defendant and it involves statements that he makes.
The Court: But that's not the question you asked. I'll sustain the objection. Excuse me. Sustain the objection.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's do it this way. What did Mr. Jackson say about the situation?
June Chandler: “Why can't we be a family? Why are you objecting to Jordie staying with me? Why can't we be a family? Why don't you trust me?” He was upset that I wanted my son back; that I -- I didn't like the situation. It was getting out of hand.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you've told the ladies and gentlemen of the jury that Mr. Jackson had given you a bracelet at one point in time and that you had gone shopping with Mr. Jackson on his credit card in Monte Carlo. Were there any other occasions when Mr. Jackson gave you gifts?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: What else did he give you?
June Chandler: He also gave me jewelry.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall approximately when that was?
June Chandler: I think it was approximately in June.
Mr. Sneddon: And what kind of jewelry?
June Chandler: A pair of earrings, a necklace, and a ring.
Mr. Sneddon: And where were these items when you first saw them?
June Chandler: The boxes were open on my bed in Santa Monica.
Mr. Sneddon: At your house?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Was Mr. Jackson staying at your house at that point in time?
June Chandler: Not really. Not really. He was there, in and out.
Mr. Sneddon: In and out. Okay. Any other gifts you ever received from Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes, a gift certificate to a store.
Mr. Sneddon: And the store?
June Chandler: To a store.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes. The store?
June Chandler: Fred Segal.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, to your knowledge, was there ever an occasion where your son Jordan and the defendant in this case, Michael Jackson, were at your ex-husband's house, Evan Chandler?
June Chandler: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember on how many occasions?
June Chandler: I would say one or two occasions.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you remember the length of the stays on those occasions that Jordan stayed there?
June Chandler: A few days each time.
Mr. Sneddon: So during this period of time you had custody of Jordan, correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you told us, I think, that there were two trips to Florida?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember when the second trip was?
June Chandler: After June. July, early July possibly.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall how long you stayed there on that occasion?
June Chandler: I would say two or three nights.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did Jordan sleep on those occasions?
June Chandler: With Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Lily go with you on that trip?
June Chandler: Yes, she did.
Mr. Sneddon: Had Jordan's behavior or attitude changed in any respect since the first time you described his change from Florida, the first trip?
June Chandler: It was the same. Same.
Mr. Sneddon: Father's Day is in June, okay?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember a situation where you were with Jordan, your son, on Father's Day?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: In 1993?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sure you were with him on other occasions. Do you recall where you were in 1993 on Father's Day?
June Chandler: Yes, I was in New York.
Mr. Sneddon: And to your knowledge, in your presence, did Jordan call his father on Father's Day?
June Chandler: Eventually he did, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And initially, did you have a conversation with him?
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Did he want to call his father?
June Chandler: No, he didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Hearsay; move to strike.
The Court: Sustained. Stricken.
Mr. Sneddon: As a result of the conversation that you had with your son Jordan, did he eventually call his father?
June Chandler: I think he did, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. At some point in time, did you receive a message of some sort from your ex-husband Evan about Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And don't tell us what was said, okay? I just want to get the facts and the background to it. Where were you when you first heard the message?
June Chandler: In Michael Jackson's car. In his limo.
Mr. Sneddon: And was Mr. Jackson with you?
June Chandler: Not when I got that call.
Mr. Sneddon: Did the call come directly to you or did you access it in some other fashion?
June Chandler: From another fashion.
Mr. Sneddon: How was that?
June Chandler: Answering machine. I dialed in.
Mr. Sneddon: So you dialed the answering machine on whose answering machine?
June Chandler: My answering machine at home.
Mr. Sneddon: And there was a message on the machine from your ex-husband Evan, correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you at some point later play that message for Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Sneddon: Are you familiar with a person by the name of Anthony Pellicano?
June Chandler: Yes, I am.
Mr. Sneddon: And who is Anthony Pellicano, to your knowledge?
June Chandler: A private investigator.
Mr. Sneddon: And was Mr. Pellicano introduced to you by somebody?
June Chandler: By Bert Fields and Michael Jackson.
Mr. Sneddon: In relationship to this voice message that you received on your message machine at your house, do you recall how many days after that particular message, you received that message, that you were introduced to Mr. Pellicano and Mr. Fields by Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: It could be a week later.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Move to strike; misstates the evidence; and no foundation.
The Court: Sustained, stricken.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you meet Anthony Pellicano through the defendant, Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. The answer is, “Yes”. Next question.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you meet Bert Fields through the defendant, Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you present during conversations with Mr. Pellicano and Mr. Fields and Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sneddon: And this all occurred after the voice mail had been left on your message machine by your ex-husband Evan Chandler?
June Chandler: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did the defendant, Michael Jackson, tell you who Anthony Pellicano was?
June Chandler: Yes, he did.
Mr. Sneddon: What did he say about Mr. Pellicano?
June Chandler: “He can find out anything. He's really good at this. He's really good at investigating. If you're having a problem, he'll get to the bottom of it”.
Mr. Sneddon: And Mr. Fields, Bert Fields, is what -- you know him by name. What occupation is he?
June Chandler: He's an attorney.
Mr. Sneddon: And he's an attorney who works for who? Or at this point in time, who did you know he was working for?
June Chandler: He worked for Michael Jackson.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at some point in time, did you go to Mr. Pellicano's office to be interviewed by Mr. Pellicano?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did somebody go with you?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Who was that?
June Chandler: My ex-husband, Dave Schwartz.
Mr. Sneddon: And was there anybody else present during this conversation?
June Chandler: I don't remember. It could be Bert Fields also.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, after that conversation, did you go somewhere else? Do you recall where you went?
June Chandler: To Michael Jackson's home in Century City, apartment in Century City.
Mr. Sneddon: And was Mr. Jackson there?
June Chandler: He might have been.
Mr. Sneddon: At that particular location, was your son Jordan Chandler there, can you tell us?
June Chandler: Yes, he might have been there, too.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall whether or not or do you recall an incident -- doesn't have to be on that particular occasion, but do you recall an occasion whether or not your son Jordan Chandler was ever interviewed by Anthony Pellicano?
June Chandler: Yes, he was.
Mr. Sneddon: Where did that interview take place?
June Chandler: In the Century City apartment.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you present?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you present during the conversation?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Where were you?
June Chandler: Upstairs or in his -- somewhere else.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall how long that conversation took?
June Chandler: Could have been 45 minutes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, after Mr. Pellicano and Mr. Fields were introduced to you by Michael Jackson, were you involved in some issues involving a change in custody of your son Jordan?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you -- were you presented with some papers to sign?
June Chandler: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sneddon: And those papers did what?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Hearsay; foundation; relevance.
The Court: Foundation; sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: The papers were presented to you by whom?
June Chandler: By Pellicano.
Mr. Sneddon: And was Mr. Fields present?
June Chandler: I don't think at that time.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall if the defendant, Michael Jackson, was present?
June Chandler: No, he wasn't.
Mr. Sneddon: At some point in time did you have a conversation with Michael Jackson about signing those papers?
June Chandler: I don't recall talking to Michael about the papers.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall giving a statement to an attorney, a Deputy District Attorney with the Los Angeles District Attorney's Office on September 3rd of 1993?
June Chandler: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And it was Miss Lauren Weis?
June Chandler: Yes, it was.
Mr. Sneddon: And you gave a rather lengthy statement to Miss Weis?
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall telling Miss Weis that --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; hearsay; move to strike.
Mr. Sneddon: It's foundational, or to refresh her recollection.
The Court: If you want to refresh her recollection with something, you can approach her and show the item.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Counsel, page 95, lines 15 to 19.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation, Your Honor.
The Court: You have to ask her if it will help refresh her recollection, or it might.
Mr. Sneddon: Can I show it to her first? That's the way counsel's been doing it.
Mr. Mesereau: No, I haven't at all.
The Court: Actually, he's been asking them if it would refresh their recollection if he showed them something.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall that conversation?
June Chandler: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And -- and it occurred at a point in time when things were a lot fresher in your mind than they are now?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Would it help, perhaps, if you looked at the statement, that it might help refresh your recollection?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: May I approach the witness, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Just read it to yourself. Start here and right down to here. How's that? Counsel, I'm having her read lines 11 to line 25.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm going to object to that. That's improper refreshing of recollection and it's hearsay, foundational, to have her just read it.
Mr. Sneddon: That's all I'm asking her to do. I'm just trying to help you try to find out where it is.
The Court: All right. Just let her look at it. Counsel knows you can refresh a person's recollection with anything.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, I thought she was reading it out loud. That was my mistake. I withdraw the objection.
The Court: That would have been improper.
Mr. Sneddon: We've been down that road before.
The Court: All right, I'm sorry. Did we -- where are we? (Laughter.)
Mr. Sneddon: I know where we are.
The Court: Is it break time yet? No. (Laughter.)
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry, Judge. You're going to have to suffer for six more minutes and you're not getting out of here a minute early. Payback is you-know-what.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Mrs. Chandler, with regard to whether or not the defendant was present, did that refresh your recollection?
June Chandler: Yes, it does.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall whether the defendant was present?
June Chandler: He was present.
Mr. Sneddon: And does it refresh -- did the defendant, Michael Jackson, make statements to you with regard to the particular documents that you were being asked to sign?
June Chandler: Yes, he did.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall what he told you?
June Chandler: He was frantic. He was begging me to, “Come over and sign this so there won't be any lawsuits or anything. Just sign it, sign it”.
Mr. Sneddon: And, in effect, what you signed did what to you personally?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Hearsay; foundation.
Mr. Sneddon: Let me go back, Judge. I think I can correct this.
Mr. Sneddon: I am assuming you read the document before you signed it?
June Chandler: Briefly.
Mr. Sneddon: And you understood what it meant when you were signing it?
June Chandler: Not really.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. You understood -- well, let me ask you this: Did you understand -- if you didn't understand all of it, you understood some of it, correct?
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you understand a part of it that had to do with who was going to have custody for the children temporarily?
June Chandler: Exactly, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And it wasn't going to be you anymore?
June Chandler: Exactly.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you sign that paper?
June Chandler: I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Mrs. Chandler, I neglected to ask you about one other incident that occurred at Neverland Ranch, okay?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: So pardon me if we can go back in time from where we are presently. And then we're almost done, okay?
June Chandler: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall whether there was ever any occasion where your brother and your sister-in-law ever visited Neverland Valley Ranch?
June Chandler: Yes, I do recall.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know approximately when it was that they visited Neverland Valley Ranch?
June Chandler: Approximately May.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you know how long they were there?
June Chandler: For the day.
Mr. Sneddon: Just came up for the day?
June Chandler: Yes. For the day.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall, were you with them while they were at the ranch?
June Chandler: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sneddon: Was Jordan at the ranch?
June Chandler: Yes, he was.
Mr. Sneddon: Where was Jordan?
June Chandler: With Michael.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, do you remember about what time it was when you left that day, you personally?
June Chandler: Before eight o'clock.
Mr. Sneddon: Eight o'clock --
June Chandler: P.m.
Mr. Sneddon: P.m. Now, do you recall seeing Mr. Jackson and Jordan before you left?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did you see them?
June Chandler: They were in Michael Jackson's bedroom.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall -- did you go into the bedroom?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you go in there with your brother and sister-in-law?
June Chandler: Yes, we did.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you went into the bedroom, where was Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: In the bedroom with Jordan.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall where?
June Chandler: Could be on the bed.
Mr. Sneddon: You don't remember specifically?
June Chandler: Not specifically.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And Jordan, do you recall where he was?
June Chandler: On the bed, too.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at some point in time, Mrs. Chandler, your son Jordan Chandler was involved in a lawsuit, Chandler versus Jackson, a civil lawsuit. Do you recall that?
June Chandler: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you a participant in that lawsuit as a representative of your son?
June Chandler: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sneddon: And who was the lawyer who represented your son during the majority of that litigation?
June Chandler: Larry Feldman.
Mr. Sneddon: And to your knowledge, was a lawsuit filed on behalf of your son against the defendant, Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you assist or help Mr. Feldman in the preparation of that lawsuit?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you support your son during that lawsuit?
June Chandler: I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, as a result of the lawsuit, did your son -- and please -- don't tell us the amount, please. Did your son receive monetary compensation from Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes, he did.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, also as a result of that lawsuit, did you receive some monetary compensation?
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever ask to be compensated in any way as a result of what had happened?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; and hearsay.
The Court: All right. Overruled.
Mr. Sneddon: You did not?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Sneddon: And where did the idea for you receiving compensation come from, to your knowledge?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection, to the extent it calls for hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: As a result of this lawsuit, did you receive money?
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you have to sign something in exchange for that money?
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did you sign?
June Chandler: A disclosure agreement.
Mr. Sneddon: And what does that mean?
June Chandler: Confidentiality agreement.
The Court: All right. Let's take our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: Mrs. Chandler, I just have a couple of questions. I want to go back to something we talked about before. You told the jury that the defendant, Michael Jackson, gave you a gift certificate at one point in time?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And it was to Segal?
June Chandler: Fred Segal is a store in Santa Monica.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And what was the amount of that certificate?
June Chandler: $7,000.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, let's just go back and finish up the last part of what we were talking about. With regard to the lawsuit, you signed some kind of an agreement, correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: In exchange for that, you were given some money?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall, based upon what you know, what the agreement was, what it required of you?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: What did you give up in return for receiving money?
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection. Hearsay and foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you read the agreement before you signed it?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And who presented it to you?
June Chandler: Larry Feldman.
Mr. Sneddon: Did he go over it with you before you signed it?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you understood what you were signing?
June Chandler: Yes, we did.
Mr. Sneddon: And you read the document?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did it require you to do in order to obtain money from the defendant, Mr. Jackson? You personally.
June Chandler: We couldn't --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Hearsay and foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Have you ever written any books --
June Chandler: Never.
Mr. Sneddon: -- about what happened?
June Chandler: No, I have not.
Mr. Sneddon: Did any interviews?
June Chandler: Never.
Mr. Sneddon: Made any money selling anything --
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Sneddon: -- about your experience?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Nothing further.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, please, Your Honor.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Mrs. Chandler, my name is Tom Mesereau and I speak for Michael Jackson, okay?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: If anything I ask you is not clear, please don't answer. Just say you don't understand it, and I'll try to rephrase it, okay?
June Chandler: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, in response to the prosecutor's questions, you said you entered into a stipulation regarding custody of your son Jordie, correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And in response to the prosecutor's questions, you said you did it because Michael Jackson told you to do it, right?
June Chandler: One of the people. He was one.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, do you remember signing a sworn declaration regarding that stipulation?
June Chandler: I remember signing something about custody of Jordie.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember signing a sworn declaration in which you said the only reason you signed the stipulation was because your ex-husband wouldn't return Jordie to you if you didn't, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said further, you thought the stipulation was merely for a one-week visitation period, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Nowhere in that declaration did you say anything about Michael Jackson telling you to sign anything, right?
June Chandler: That's not correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection to look at your declaration?
June Chandler: I'd be happy to.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Chandler, have you had a chance to look at that sworn declaration?
June Chandler: Yes, I have.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about what you said in the declaration?
June Chandler: Sort of.
Mr. Mesereau: Isn't it true you said the only reason you signed it was because your ex-husband told you that if you didn't sign the stipulation, you would not have Jordan returned to you, right?
June Chandler: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You said that was the only reason, correct?
June Chandler: That's not the only reason.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you signed it under penalty of perjury, did you not?
June Chandler: I wasn't asked who else was asking me to sign it.
Mr. Mesereau: Who prepared the declaration for you to sign?
June Chandler: Evan Chandler's attorney.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you represented by counsel when you signed this declaration?
June Chandler: Oooh. I might have been.
Mr. Mesereau: You actually were, weren't you?
June Chandler: I -- I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: You were represented by counsel because you were trying to set aside the stipulation in court, right?
Mr. Sneddon: Well, Your Honor, I'm going to object to that. That's misleading as to point and time, and vague.
Mr. Mesereau: It's not misleading at all.
Mr. Sneddon: Wait a minute, Counsel. Judge, I object as vague as to time as to when she was represented.
The Court: All right. I'll sustain the objection. It's an argumentative question.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Chandler, at some point you hired a lawyer to help you set aside that stipulation, right?
June Chandler: I don't know if that was the reason why an attorney was hired, if it was for that reason.
Mr. Mesereau: And your attorney prepared your declaration, true?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall if the stipulation was ever set aside by your attorney?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall being represented by an attorney named Freeman?
June Chandler: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: And who is Mr. Freeman?
June Chandler: He's an attorney that represented me for a short time.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall asking Michael Jackson if he would loan David Schwartz four million dollars?
June Chandler: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: You say you never did that?
June Chandler: Never did that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall your ex-husband David Schwartz asking you to do that?
June Chandler: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall him being five million dollars in debt around the time you were associating with Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Don't recall that at all?
June Chandler: Not at all.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you sued Michael Jackson, you sued through Larry Feldman, true?
June Chandler: I did not sue Michael Jackson. Jordan Chandler and his family were -- that was his family. We did not sue Michael Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you never sued him yourself, you're saying?
June Chandler: I don't believe that's how it was worded.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall meetings with your attorney about that lawsuit?
June Chandler: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you -- you and Jordan's father Evan were divorced in 1985, true?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you obtained sole custody of Jordan, right?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you had an informal arrangement where Evan could have custody or at least visitation rights of Jordie from time to time, correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: What year did you marry David Schwartz?
June Chandler: 1985.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, is it correct that he became Jordan's stepfather?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And for how long was he Jordie's stepfather?
June Chandler: For approximately six to eight years.
Mr. Mesereau: What year did he cease to be Jordie's stepfather?
June Chandler: When we divorced.
Mr. Mesereau: And what year was that?
June Chandler: 1994.
Mr. Mesereau: And how old is Jordie now?
June Chandler: He is 25 years old.
Mr. Mesereau: Can I ask you when you last spoke to him?
June Chandler: 11 years ago.
Mr. Mesereau: At one point, David Schwartz sued Michael Jackson, correct?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall him suing Michael Jackson claiming that Michael had interfered with his business?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as immaterial; irrelevant; calls for hearsay.
June Chandler: I don't recall.
The Court: It's vague as to time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I'll rephrase it, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Around the time you and Evan and Jordie sued Michael Jackson with Attorney Larry Feldman, do you recall your ex-husband, David Schwartz, also suing Michael Jackson?
Mr. Sneddon: Same objection, Your Honor.
June Chandler: I don't recall.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall, in response to your lawsuit, Mr. Jackson suing for extortion?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to that question.
The Court: Sustained. Foundation.
Mr. Mesereau: You sued Michael Jackson, right?
June Chandler: Jordan Chandler sued Michael Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you listed as a plaintiff?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And in response to your suit, Mr. Jackson sued for extortion, true?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you and Evan and Jordie all represented by Larry Feldman?
June Chandler: Yes, we were.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when that suit settled?
June Chandler: I guess in '95.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Evan suing Mr. Jackson a second time?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Don't know anything about that?
June Chandler: Nothing.
Mr. Mesereau: Never heard about it?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know who Attorney Barry Rothman is?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who is Attorney Barry Rothman?
June Chandler: He was Evan Chandler's attorney.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Attorney Barry Rothman also suing Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: No, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, during your trips with Michael Jackson, do you recall the name “Sony” ever being mentioned?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And in what context was Sony mentioned?
June Chandler: The gifts that Michael Jackson gave were from Sony. Sony recorders. We flew on the Sony jet. That's what I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall, around the time you were associating with Michael Jackson, that Michael Jackson had an endorsement deal with PepsiCo?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, that was the most lucrative endorsement deal anyone in the music business had ever entered into with PepsiCo, correct?
June Chandler: I didn't know that.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, that's immaterial and irrelevant.
The Court: Foundation; sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall learning from Michael Jackson that he owned an interest in The Beatles' catalog?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss that with Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss his deal with PepsiCo with Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: When you filed your lawsuit against Mr. Jackson, your attorney was threatening to ruin Mr. Jackson's music deals, correct?
June Chandler: No. Not that I recall.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't recall that at all?
June Chandler: Not at all.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall participating in settlement negotiations?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you participated in settlement negotiations, where did you used to meet?
June Chandler: Larry Feldman's offices.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last talk to Larry Feldman?
June Chandler: Oh, a few days ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk about what you were going to say in court?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk about what he said in court?
June Chandler: Briefly.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he call you or did you call him?
June Chandler: I called him.
Mr. Mesereau: Before this discussion a few days ago, when was the last time before that you had spoken to Larry Feldman?
June Chandler: Oh, um, maybe two months before that.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you talk to him about this case in that discussion?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk to him about what you were going to say?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you call him or did he call you?
June Chandler: I called him.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk on the phone with him or did you meet with him?
June Chandler: Yes, talk on the phone.
Mr. Mesereau: Before that discussion, when had you last spoken to Attorney Larry Feldman?
June Chandler: Perhaps ten years ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you never discussed anything about this case in those discussions, right?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never talked about what you were going to be asked in this courtroom in any of those discussions, right?
June Chandler: Not to that effect, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Mr. Feldman tell you he represents the Arvizos in either of those discussions?
June Chandler: I don't know what that is.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So he never talked about his representing anyone associated with this case, besides you, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you said something in response to the prosecutor's questions about your son changing the way he dressed at one point, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't your son used to try and dress like Michael Jackson before he even met him?
June Chandler: When he was very young.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet with the prosecutor before you testified today?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you meet with the prosecutor to talk about anything you said today?
June Chandler: Two days ago.
Mr. Mesereau: And where was that meeting?
June Chandler: In downtown L.A.
Mr. Mesereau: And who did you meet with?
June Chandler: With my attorney.
Mr. Mesereau: And who is your attorney?
June Chandler: Brad Barnholtz.
Mr. Mesereau: Who else did you meet with?
June Chandler: Tom Sneddon.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How long a discussion was that?
June Chandler: Oh, perhaps an hour and a half.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk about what you were going to say today?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Mr. Sneddon go over some questions that he was going to ask you?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever go over some answers that you were going to give?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When had you met with Mr. Sneddon before that meeting?
June Chandler: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you talked to him on the phone?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times?
June Chandler: Once or twice.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, where did you first meet Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: At Rent-A-Wreck. The business of my ex-husband.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was the day that Mr. Jackson had a problem with his car, right?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when did you see him after that initial meeting?
June Chandler: I guess maybe approximately a few months after that.
Mr. Mesereau: The first meeting was approximately August '92, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when do you think the next meeting was?
June Chandler: Perhaps maybe in February.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And again, how did that meeting happen? Who called who?
June Chandler: How did the meeting --
Mr. Mesereau: The second meeting. The first time you saw him when he had a problem with his car, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And then there was a meeting after that?
June Chandler: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: How did that happen?
June Chandler: Through phone conversations with my son. And he -- and Michael Jackson invited us to Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How did you get to Neverland?
June Chandler: By car. By my car. I drove.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you stay over at Neverland that first time?
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: How long did you stay?
June Chandler: I would say for two nights. One or two nights.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And your daughter was there as well, right?
June Chandler: Yes, she was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you said that you, your daughter, your son, stayed in the guesthouses, correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, what did you do during the day during that visit, during the two days you were there?
June Chandler: We watched movies. We went on rides. We visited his zoo. Things like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how did you get home? Did you drive?
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you next talk to Michael Jackson after that?
June Chandler: Oh, I think probably the day after we got back.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he call you?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you talk to him?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you get together again?
June Chandler: Perhaps a week later. A week or two later.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you go to Neverland again?
June Chandler: Yes, we did.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you get there?
June Chandler: He drove. His -- sorry, his chauffeur drove.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you stay over --
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- on that second trip?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long was your stay over there?
June Chandler: A couple of nights.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember what you did on that second trip?
June Chandler: Same thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you see Michael very often on the first trip?
June Chandler: The whole time, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see him --
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- very often on the second trip?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When you said you went to the zoo and did these fun things, was Michael always with you?
June Chandler: The first and second time?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
June Chandler: Basically, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you have dinner in the main house with Michael?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And of course your children were there too, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: After that second trip, when did you next have contact with Michael, if you remember?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to the use of the first name.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll say “Michael Jackson”, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: After your second visit to Neverland, did you have further contact with Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And please explain what your next contact was all about.
June Chandler: I don't know if that was the time we again went to Neverland or we had taken a trip to Las Vegas.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, in your discussion with the Los Angeles District Attorney in 1993, you talked about your visits with Mr. Jackson, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you looked at that transcript recently?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last look at the transcript?
June Chandler: Briefly, today.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you get a copy of it?
June Chandler: Through Mr. Sneddon.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did he ask you to read it today?
June Chandler: Did he ask me to read it today?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he ask you to read it at any time?
June Chandler: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: And when was that?
June Chandler: Last week.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he give you anything else to read before you testified?
June Chandler: That's it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you read it from cover to cover?
June Chandler: Tried.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. You told the District Attorney in Los Angeles when describing your first trip there, “Michael Jackson wasn't the superstar. He was a regular person, and we couldn't believe how nice he was”, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said that after you got there, he offered to let you stay over, correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Your plan initially wasn't to stay over, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You said that first night, Jordie actually knocked at your door and said he was going to stay with you, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: So the first night he stayed with you and your daughter, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, when did you go to Toys-R-Us with Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: Could have been the first visit or the second visit.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did Michael Jackson offer to take you there?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And he did take you there, right?
June Chandler: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he drive or did you have a driver take you there, do you know?
June Chandler: We must have had a driver.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, at one time, did you visit Roy Disney's widow with Michael?
June Chandler: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. At some point you told the Los Angeles District Attorney that Michael was visiting Roy Disney's widow in Beverly Hills; do you remember that?
June Chandler: Not really, but I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall telling that to the Los Angeles District Attorney?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection to let you see that page?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
June Chandler: Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about what you told the Los Angeles District Attorney?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you tell them about that?
June Chandler: I said that I was -- we had left and Michael was -- I had left Neverland with Jordie and Lily, and he was going to visit Roy Disney's widow.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, was that while you were visiting Neverland?
June Chandler: After we left.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as to vague as to time as to what visit.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it.
Mr. Mesereau: During what visit did Michael Jackson tell you he had to visit Roy Disney's widow?
June Chandler: The first visit.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as to hearsay.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it the first visit?
June Chandler: I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall if you and your family stayed at Neverland while Mr. Jackson left the premises?
June Chandler: I don't recall that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall him making a trip like that?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You talked about gifts that Mr. Jackson gave you, okay?
June Chandler: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever ask for any of those gifts?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he just give them to you on his own initiative as far as you're concerned?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Tell us all the gifts you recall him giving you.
June Chandler: A gold bracelet. A pair of earrings. A necklace. A ring. A gift certificate to a boutique. That's what I recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you said he gave you his credit card to use?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he do that more than once?
June Chandler: He might have, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall what you bought with Michael Jackson's credit card?
June Chandler: I know I -- I think two handbags.
Mr. Mesereau: Anything else?
June Chandler: Not that I recall, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How many nights do you recall Mr. Jackson staying at your house?
June Chandler: To the best of my recollection, 30 nights.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately what time period was that, if you know?
June Chandler: Beginning the middle of April till the end of May.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you at your house on every evening that Michael Jackson stayed over?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You said something to the effect, I believe, that Mr. Jackson would leave during the day?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know where he went?
June Chandler: Not really. I --
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever ask him?
June Chandler: Sometimes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where did he tell you he was going?
June Chandler: Going home.
Mr. Mesereau: To Neverland?
June Chandler: Working. No, not to Neverland. I think his hideout, to his place that he calls “The Hideout” in Century City.
Mr. Mesereau: That's the place you visited, correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times were you at that apartment?
June Chandler: Approximately three or four times.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you went to the apartment that you've described as Michael Jackson's hideout, were you always with your son?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever with anyone else?
June Chandler: Not that I recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You indicated you met someone named Brett Barnes at Neverland, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know when you first met him?
June Chandler: It could have been the second time that we were going to Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: And he was actually in the limousine that Michael Jackson sent to pick you up, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the first time you had met him?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was that the trip you went to Disneyland?
June Chandler: It could be, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was Brett Barnes with you on that trip?
June Chandler: I would assume so. I'm -- I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if his mother was there on that trip?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: So it was you, Michael Jackson, your two children, and Brett, right?
June Chandler: Perhaps Brett.
Mr. Mesereau: You're not sure?
June Chandler: Exactly.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you go back to Neverland after the trip to Disneyland?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You indicated you met someone named Joy, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you meet someone named Joy?
June Chandler: Later on, in -- could be May. April or May.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did you meet her?
June Chandler: At Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was she staying there when you stayed there?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did she have a son, to your knowledge?
June Chandler: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: And who was that?
June Chandler: Wade.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How often did you see Joy Robson and Wade Robson at Neverland?
June Chandler: I remember seeing Joy once. And Wade, I -- it could be a few times. I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: When you were at Neverland at the same time that they were there, did you associate with them?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what did you do with them?
June Chandler: I had dinner with Joy, where we talked. And with Wade, if we went -- if there was a movie playing, I guess he was with us also.
Mr. Mesereau: When Michael Jackson used to stay at your home, were you in the middle of a divorce proceeding?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you separated?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you used to discuss your problems with David Schwartz with Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You actually had a lot of discussions, didn't you?
June Chandler: Not a lot.
Mr. Mesereau: You told him it was a poor relationship, didn't you?
June Chandler: What was a poor relationship?
Mr. Mesereau: Your relationship with David Schwartz.
June Chandler: I told whom? I'm sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: Michael Jackson.
June Chandler: Oh. No. I -- I don't -- I didn't get into my relationship about David Schwartz to Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: So you never discussed it with Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: I just said that we were separated and these were not wonderful times for us.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would discuss with him from time to time the problems you were having, wouldn't you?
June Chandler: No. No, I wouldn't.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as irrelevant, Your Honor, not to mention hearsay.
The Court: Overruled. The answer was, “No”. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: During those 30 nights that Michael Jackson stayed at your house, did he have dinner at your house?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it usually you, he, your son and daughter at dinner?
June Chandler: At times.
Mr. Mesereau: Who else would join you for dinner?
June Chandler: That's it.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever have dinner yourself, without your children, just with Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever traveled with Michael Jackson without your children?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you go to Las Vegas with Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: Around the end of March.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was the purpose of that trip?
June Chandler: I guess Steve Wynn, the owner of the Mirage Hotel, invited Michael to come and stay and vacation in Las Vegas for a few days.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you meet Mr. Wynn while you were there?
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: How long were you in Las Vegas for that trip?
June Chandler: Two or three nights.
Mr. Mesereau: And again, how did you get there?
June Chandler: Steve Wynn's jet.
Mr. Mesereau: And did his jet take you back home afterwards?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. When you went to Las Vegas on Steve Wynn's jet, had Michael Jackson begun to stay over at your home?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Michael Jackson begin to stay at your home after that trip to Las Vegas?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did you travel with Michael Jackson to any other cities in America during this period of time?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you travel to?
June Chandler: To Florida and New York.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that Orlando, Florida?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did that trip happen, approximately?
June Chandler: Oh, approximately April, I guess.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was the purpose of that trip, if you know?
June Chandler: To go to Disney World.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you do that?
June Chandler: Yes, we did.
Mr. Mesereau: How long a trip was that?
June Chandler: A couple of days.
Mr. Mesereau: And then did you come back?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: The rooms in your hotel, describe the rooms, if you would.
June Chandler: I don't remember The Grand Floridian, what the rooms were like.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you have your own room?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Michael Jackson have his own room?
June Chandler: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: And did your children have their own room?
June Chandler: I'm not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know where your children stayed?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did they stay?
June Chandler: Jordie, my son, stayed with Michael, and Lily stayed with me.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ever object, during that trip, to your son staying with Michael?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You never suspected anything improper was going on on that trip, correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You mentioned some children from New Jersey that you met at Neverland, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And who were they again?
June Chandler: Frank and Eddie Cascio.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you ever meet their parents?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first see them at Neverland?
June Chandler: I don't recall. Could be the third visit to Neverland. Fourth visit.
Mr. Mesereau: When was the first time your son Jordan asked if he could sleep with Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: I would say starting the third visit to Neverland, second or third visit to Neverland, because there were always boys around and staying in his bedroom, and why couldn't he? And that's when he started asking.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that there were a lot of kids hanging around Michael Jackson's bedroom?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see --
June Chandler: Boys.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me. Did you see a lot of kids at Neverland while you were there?
June Chandler: A lot of Michael's --
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me. Object as to vague.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it. Let's go through the first trip.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see a lot of kids at Neverland during your first trip?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see a lot of kids at Neverland during your second trip?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How many other children at Neverland did you see on your first trip?
June Chandler: No other kids on the first trip.
Mr. Mesereau: How many kids at Neverland did you see on your second trip?
June Chandler: One.
Mr. Mesereau: How about your third trip?
June Chandler: Third -- Frank and Eddie Cascio.
Mr. Mesereau: Any other children on the third trip?
June Chandler: It could have been Macaulay Culkin also.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you meet Macaulay Culkin at Neverland?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Macaulay Culkin doesn't look at all like your son, does he?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet Macaulay's parents?
June Chandler: Father.
Mr. Mesereau: At Neverland?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was, you think, the third trip?
June Chandler: Could be. Could have been.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see him at Neverland again?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you next see Macaulay Culkin at Neverland?
June Chandler: Fourth or fifth visit.
Mr. Mesereau: Was anyone else from his family there; do you know?
June Chandler: His brothers were there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was it your understanding that the Culkins were good friends of Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: That Macaulay Culkin was good friends with Michael Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: What about his family? Was it your understanding his family were close friends of Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: Not close friends.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you really know?
June Chandler: It didn't appear that they were close friends, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if his parents used to visit Neverland?
June Chandler: His father used to visit Neverland with Macaulay.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you hang out with them when you were at Neverland?
June Chandler: Did I hang out with --
Mr. Mesereau: The Culkins.
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Then how would you know whether or not they were close with Michael Jackson?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: When you were in Las Vegas with Mr. Jackson, you went to Cirque du Soleil, correct?
June Chandler: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did your son?
June Chandler: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: And did your daughter go as well?
June Chandler: To Cirque du Soleil?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
June Chandler: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have any problem at that time letting your son go to Cirque du Soleil with Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And did your son stay with Mr. Jackson that evening, to your knowledge?
June Chandler: To my knowledge, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You told the prosecutor that Mr. Jackson got upset at one point about your not trusting him, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And he said words to you to the effect that, “We're family”, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You suggested that you let Jordie sleep wherever he wants to sleep, right?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told him, “Look, I've had two husbands that I can't trust”, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You said, “I think you're a wonderful person, but I can't let my trust down”, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you described Michael as saying that he was going to take care of you, right?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, excuse me, I'm going to object as vague as to point in time of the conversation.
Mr. Mesereau: Sure. Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: When was the conversation where Michael got upset because he didn't think you trusted him?
June Chandler: In Las Vegas in the hotel room.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You said to Michael, “I've had males in my life that, you know, have disappointed me. How can I have you in my life and you're saying that you're going to take care of us, that you're so wonderful, everything's going to be okay, how am I going to do that?”
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to counsel reading from the document.
Mr. Mesereau: I haven't finished the question yet, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, he's reading --
The Court: Well, all right, what is the question?
Mr. Mesereau: I was going to ask her if she made that statement.
The Court: All right. You may.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you make a statement to that effect?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Michael said to you he wanted a family to just treat him like a regular person, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: He said he didn't want to be like a stranger, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And he asked you to trust him, right?
June Chandler: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling the District Attorney in Los Angeles that when you talked to your ex-husband Evan about Michael Jackson's relationship with your family, that Evan saw this as a wonderful means for Jordie not having to worry for the rest of his life?
June Chandler: Would you repeat your question?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. Didn't you tell the Los Angeles District Attorney that your ex-husband Evan, the father of Jordie, told you that the relationship with Michael was a wonderful means of Jordie not having to worry for the rest of his life?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And to you, that meant Michael Jackson supporting you financially for the rest of your life, correct?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: That's what you thought your ex-husband meant by it, true?
Mr. Sneddon: Calls for speculation.
June Chandler: Speculation.
The Court: Sustained. Sustained. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: Just asking you what you thought, not what your ex-husband thought.
June Chandler: Well, I'm speculating also. I would be speculating if I answered.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, if someone says to you, “This is a wonderful way not to have to worry for the rest of our life”, doesn't that suggest that maybe someone is thinking about Michael Jackson supporting you?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object. We just went through this. Calls for speculation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you go to France and Monaco with Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: In May.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he invite you?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he invite your whole family?
June Chandler: Jordan and Lily, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: At one point you said that Michael Jackson stayed at your ex-husband's house when Jordan was there, correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, was your ex-husband at the house when Michael Jackson stayed there?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many days, to your knowledge, did Michael Jackson stay at your ex-husband's house?
June Chandler: Approximately four to seven days.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, was that consecutive or were they periodic visits?
June Chandler: Consecutive.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall anything about your ex-husband wanting Michael Jackson to finance a wing on his house?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, Michael Jackson never did that, right?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at that point in time, Jordan's father Evan was writing a screenplay, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, he was spending a lot of time on that screenplay, right?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were complaining that he wasn't spending enough time with his son, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: At the time you were happy that Michael was around, because Jordan's father was not spending time with him, and you were separated from David, correct?
June Chandler: True.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object as to vague as to what time, time period. We have several months here.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, I can --
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Move to strike the answer.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: Did there come a time when you were happy that Michael Jackson was around, because your ex-husband Evan was spending time writing a screenplay and you were separated from David?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately what -- when was that?
June Chandler: In the beginning I was happy.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When did Michael go to Cartier and buy you that jewelry?
June Chandler: When we went to Las Vegas.
Mr. Mesereau: Was he with you when he did that?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he do it on his own?
June Chandler: He did it with Jordie.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did he come back and give it to you?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you described that to the Los Angeles District Attorney as a love bracelet, did you not?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that what it was?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What is a love bracelet?
June Chandler: It's a bracelet that's a gold bracelet and that's what it's called.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Had you ever told Michael Jackson you liked that kind of jewelry?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you surprised when he bought it for you?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you mentioned that during that trip, you went to the David Copperfield show; is that right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And who went to that show?
June Chandler: Jordan, Lily and Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the four of you have dinner that night together?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did Michael give you his credit card on that trip?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. At some point did you all see an Exorcist movie?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall anyone watching an Exorcist movie?
June Chandler: I was told Jordan and Michael watched an Exorcist movie.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Did you ever object to Jordie sleeping in Michael's room on that trip?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you say?
June Chandler: “Jordie, when you come home, go to your bed. Go to your own bed. Come to our bed, not to Michael's bed”. He said, “Mom, I want to stay there”. And I was very upset about that.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, this was before the approximately 30 nights that he stayed at your home --
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- in Santa Monica, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you did allow him to stay at your home in Santa Monica, right?
June Chandler: Afterwards.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you mentioned in your interview that when Michael Jackson's not working, he's a lonely person, correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you also mentioned that the Cascios owned a restaurant, true?
June Chandler: True.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you know they owned a restaurant?
June Chandler: I was -- I don't recall how I knew.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you remember telling the District Attorney that Michael would help Jordie with his homework?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Would he do that at your home?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You also said he played a lot like a child, correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And he seemed to play at Neverland a lot like a child, correct?
June Chandler: Yeah, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You mentioned Tommy and Merdie. Do you remember that?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who are Tommy and Merdie?
June Chandler: Merdie; are my brother and sister-in-law.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. At some point you stayed in Santa Monica with them, correct?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Michael Jackson there?
June Chandler: He was there.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Michael Jackson stay with you at their home?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he stay at their home?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he stay at your home?
June Chandler: Not that time, no. Not at that time.
Mr. Mesereau: And you stayed in Santa Monica with Tommy and Merdie?
June Chandler: Meredith. Merdie.
Mr. Mesereau: Merdie, okay. You stayed with them at one point, right?
June Chandler: They stayed with me.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh, they stayed with you?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Michael Jackson there that night?
June Chandler: I don't recall, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. To your knowledge, did Michael Jackson ever meet Tommy and Merdie?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, when Michael Jackson was staying at your home in Santa Monica during those 30 days that you mentioned, was Jordan in school?
June Chandler: Yes, he was.
Mr. Mesereau: Was he going to school each day?
June Chandler: Yes, he was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You mentioned Steve and Jo Ellen. Do you remember that?
June Chandler: Do I remember mentioning --
Mr. Mesereau: Mentioning Steve and Jo Ellen to the District Attorney?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who are Steve and Jo Ellen?
June Chandler: Steve is also my brother, and his wife Jo Ellen.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they visit you in Santa Monica during the time that Michael Jackson was staying over?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You said that they witnessed Michael Jackson and Jordie in the bedroom, didn't they?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: When was that?
June Chandler: At Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they stay there?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did they go into Michael Jackson's bedroom?
June Chandler: Yes, they did.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you go into Michael Jackson's bedroom?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times do you think you went into Michael Jackson's bedroom at Neverland?
June Chandler: It stopped after maybe the tenth time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Describe, if you would for the jury, what Michael Jackson's bedroom looks like?
June Chandler: Lots of dolls. Lots of playthings. It looks like a boy's room, big boy's room. Lots of toys and things.
Mr. Mesereau: Is it a big area?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How big would you describe it as, if you can?
June Chandler: Oh, it's a long time ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it kind of huge?
June Chandler: Well, there's an upstairs and a downstairs. Yes, it's kind of huge.
Mr. Mesereau: When you used to visit Michael Jackson's bedroom, would you see other people in there?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who do you remember seeing in there?
June Chandler: The Cascio brothers. Macaulay. Brett. Wade.
Mr. Mesereau: And you saw their parents in there, too, didn't you?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Macaulay's father in there?
June Chandler: In the bedroom?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And why were you in the bedroom those ten times?
June Chandler: Because I'm Jordie's mother. I'm allowed to go into the bedroom.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you dropping clothes off?
June Chandler: Oh, I might have. I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever sit down and watch T.V. or anything in there?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How often did you do that?
June Chandler: A few times.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever have food delivered to you in Michael Jackson's bedroom?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did David Schwartz, to your knowledge, ever visit Neverland?
June Chandler: No. No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you were in Monaco with Michael Jackson, what did you do?
June Chandler: We went to an awards ceremony. We -- well, Jordie and Michael -- Jordie and Michael were sick, so Lily and I went shopping and drove around. We were driven around.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Michael Jackson pay for the whole trip?
June Chandler: Yes, the trip was paid for. I don't know who paid for it.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did Michael Jackson pay for it?
June Chandler: No. No. It was an awards. I think he was given tickets to attend this award because he was receiving some kind of --
Mr. Mesereau: Who paid for your hotel room, if you know?
June Chandler: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you indicated that at one point Jordie and Michael had the flu, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did you find out they had the flu?
June Chandler: In the hotel room.
Mr. Mesereau: And were they staying in the same room at that point?
June Chandler: Yes, they were.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever complain about that?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what happened?
June Chandler: The room was boarded up. I couldn't get in there. It started to get weird now. Things started to go downhill pretty quickly.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever take your son and leave on your own?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: After you got back from Monaco, did Michael Jackson spend nights at your home?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were the 30 nights you've described after you got back from Monaco?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How many nights after you got back from Monaco do you think Michael Jackson stayed at your home?
June Chandler: Oh, perhaps a week or two.
Mr. Mesereau: And this was a point where you were getting upset that your son wanted to spend all of his time with Michael Jackson, right?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, while you were in Monaco, you never saw Michael Jackson and your son ever take a bath together, right?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You never saw them shower together, right?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you go to France on that trip?
June Chandler: I think that was in May.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was the purpose of that trip, if you know?
June Chandler: To get an award. He was receiving an award.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that after the trip to Monaco or before?
June Chandler: I'm sorry?
Mr. Mesereau: Was that after the trip to Monaco?
June Chandler: What was? What are you asking?
Mr. Mesereau: The trip to France you described. Was there a --
June Chandler: That is the trip.
Mr. Mesereau: That's the trip?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: It was all in Monaco?
June Chandler: Monaco, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever go anywhere else?
June Chandler: We went to Euro Disney also, outside of Paris.
Mr. Mesereau: Was the trip to Euro Disney after you were in Monaco for the awards or before it, if you know?
June Chandler: To the best of my recollection, it was after the awards.
Mr. Mesereau: And how much time did you spend on that portion of the trip?
June Chandler: I would say a couple of nights.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, one point you visited Evan, Jordan's father, at his home when Michael Jackson was there, right?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall seeing Evan and Michael in a squirt-gun-type fight?
June Chandler: That was my home, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: That was your home?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: So Evan had come to your home at that point?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And Evan, Michael and Jordie were in a squirt gun fight, right?
June Chandler: Along with his other son Nicky.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you got upset a little bit at that, right?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How did you learn that Michael Jackson was going to stay over at Evan's house?
June Chandler: Through my son Jordan.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when did that occur?
June Chandler: After the trip to Monaco, I think.
Mr. Mesereau: How many visits, to your knowledge, did Michael Jackson make to Evan's house?
June Chandler: To my knowledge -- to the best of my recollection, one or two visits.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And to your knowledge, did he spend the night there?
June Chandler: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did Jordan spend the night there?
June Chandler: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, was Evan there both nights?
June Chandler: To the best of my knowledge, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Jordan never missed school while Michael Jackson was staying at your home, right?
June Chandler: To the best of my recollection, no, he did not miss school.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
June Chandler: There might have been one or two days where he missed, but --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You said that Michael Jackson saw you in New York at one point?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when was that?
June Chandler: In June, the middle of June.
Mr. Mesereau: Was he staying at the same hotel you were at?
June Chandler: He arrived after we were there, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know in advance he was going to be staying at the same hotel?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you know he was going to be staying at the same hotel as you and your children?
June Chandler: His secretary informed me.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he pay for those hotel rooms, to your knowledge?
June Chandler: I don't know who paid for the hotel rooms.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And which hotel was this?
June Chandler: The Rega Royal Hotel in New York City.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long did you stay at that hotel --
June Chandler: Oh, perhaps --
Mr. Mesereau: -- on that trip?
June Chandler: -- four nights.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was Mr. Jackson there during the four nights, to your knowledge?
June Chandler: Part -- part of those nights, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you introduce Mr. Jackson to other members of your family on that trip?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you mention your brothers were there on that trip?
June Chandler: They were in New York, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did they come to your hotel; do you know?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know whether or not Michael met your brothers on that trip?
June Chandler: I don't recall that, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what month are we in now, if you know?
June Chandler: June. In June.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And just to clarify, the first time Mr. Jackson ever stayed at your home in Santa Monica was what month?
June Chandler: In April.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember telling Michael Jackson, “You're like a magnet?”
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling Michael Jackson, “You're like Peter Pan. Everybody wants to be around you and spend 24 hours”?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You told him, “Lily would too, except she's not old enough”?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you said there was an incident in a room in New York, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you actually see what happened?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you learn what happened in the room?
June Chandler: In the morning I saw lamps, two lamps were broken.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And Michael told you he had kicked the two lamps, right?
June Chandler: My son said that Michael Jackson did a karate kick and kicked the lamps.
Mr. Mesereau: Actually, Michael told you that, too, didn't he?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection to show you what you said to the District Attorney?
June Chandler: Thank you. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that page?
June Chandler: Yes, I have.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection --
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- about what you said? Michael told you he kicked the two lamps practicing karate, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And he said he would pay for it, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said to him, “Lily told me a different story”, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: But Lily told you they were just playing, correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when do you remember meeting Bert Fields for the first time?
June Chandler: Sometime in August.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Michael Jackson still spending evenings at your home in August?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: When had he stopped spending evenings at your home, if you know?
June Chandler: I would say late June.
Mr. Mesereau: And had you heard of who Bert Fields was before that meeting?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You weren't aware he's one of the best-known entertainment lawyers in Los Angeles?
June Chandler: I was told that by Michael Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long was your meeting with Bert Fields?
June Chandler: I don't recall. It could be an hour.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's where Mr. Pellicano was present?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Is that the only time you've ever met with Bert Fields, to your knowledge?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: In the sworn declaration you filed regarding your attempt to set aside that stipulation, is there any reason why you didn't mention Mr. Fields, Mr. Pellicano or Mr. Jackson in that declaration?
June Chandler: Is my -- I don't understand the question.
Mr. Mesereau: That's where you said the only reason you signed the stipulation was because of what your ex-husband threatened you with.
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: But you told the jury initially that the reason you signed it was because Michael Jackson wanted you to sign it, true?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: That's not contained in your declaration, is it?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Objection. Asked and answered and argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't mention Mr. Fields or Mr. Pellicano either in that declaration, right?
Mr. Sneddon: Same objection, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: Right?
The Court: You may answer.
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: When had you separated from David Schwartz?
June Chandler: Around August of '92, approximately.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember complaining that Evan, Jordan's father, had promised him money for helping him write the screenplay?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you complained that Evan had not paid Jordan the money he owed him, true?
June Chandler: I didn't complain. It was a statement.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you asked him to pay him the money, right?
June Chandler: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't tell him he owed your son $5,000?
June Chandler: It was a discussion.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you want him to pay him that money?
June Chandler: It would have been a nice thing, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: He didn't do it, did he?
June Chandler: No, he did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you mentioned a gift certificate for $7,000 --
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- that you got from Michael Jackson, right?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you go to Fred Segal and use that gift certificate?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you get with it?
June Chandler: Oh, clothes, jewelry. That's it.
Mr. Mesereau: That's it?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Before today, when is the last time you ever saw Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: Oh, ten years ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
June Chandler: Eleven years ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you talked to Evan at all about what you're saying in court today?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: When is the last time you spoke to him?
June Chandler: Ten years ago.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did Michael Jackson ever stay at David Schwartz's home?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he ever visit there, to your knowledge?
June Chandler: No. Not that I recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Other than the first time when you met Mr. Jackson at David Schwartz's rental car company, do you recall ever seeing Michael Jackson meeting with David Schwartz?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember Evan threatening David physically?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did that happen?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as immaterial.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when did you get settlement money from the settlement with Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: Oh, I would say approximately October of '93.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you received any settlement money since then?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You mentioned to the District Attorney in Los Angeles a meeting Michael Jackson had with Elizabeth Taylor and Nelson Mandela. Do you remember that?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I object as immaterial.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember, was Jordie with Michael at that meeting?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: David Schwartz was also at the apartment that Michael Jackson owned in Century City that you called “The Hideout”, right?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that meeting?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as vague as to time. What meeting?
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it.
Mr. Mesereau: When, to your knowledge, did David Schwartz visit Michael Jackson's home in Century City that you call “The Hideout”?
June Chandler: It could be late August, early September.
Mr. Mesereau: Who else was there when you got to the apartment?
June Chandler: I don't recall who else was there.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember in your meeting with Mr. Pellicano telling Mr. Pellicano, “Well, it's Michael Jackson. I know Evan. It could be money. It could be”?
Mr. Sneddon: Object as hearsay, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever personally tell Mr. Pellicano that Evan's concerns could be only about money?
Mr. Sneddon: Same objection, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Was your lawyer, Michael Freeman, at that meeting with Mr. Pellicano?
June Chandler: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that the same meeting Bert Fields was present?
June Chandler: I don't recall, but possibly. Quite possibly.
Mr. Mesereau: If your lawyer, Michael Freeman, was at the meeting, you must have been able to get legal advice about what to sign, right?
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object to that question. Assumes facts and calls for speculation. Can I throw in argumentative, too?
The Court: The objection is sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ask Attorney Michael Freeman to be at the meeting?
June Chandler: No. I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know how he got there?
June Chandler: I don't think he was there.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object to that question. She has not said he was there. Assumes facts.
Mr. Mesereau: She did. She did.
June Chandler: I don't recall him being there.
The Court: Just a moment. Objection sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Who is Michael Freeman?
June Chandler: An attorney. My attorney.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you first meet Michael Freeman?
June Chandler: Oh, I don't recall when.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he represent you at some point during the time period you've described today?
June Chandler: At some point, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And he was your personal lawyer --
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: -- is that right? You mentioned -- actually, let me ask you this: Did you mention Norma Stakos earlier?
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you meet Norma Stakos?
June Chandler: I've never met Norma Stakos.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever spoken to her?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: In what context did you speak to Norma Stakos?
June Chandler: By telephone, about where we should meet, or when Michael Jackson is coming in to New York, or things like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she seem to be the person that arranged your trips?
June Chandler: Everything. Everything.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she seem to be the person who would get plane tickets, for example?
June Chandler: Absolutely, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would she be the person who would arrange transportation on your trips with Michael Jackson?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember at your meeting with Mr. Pellicano, that Mr. Pellicano said, “This is all extortion”?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to that question. Calls for hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at the time you met Mr. Fields and Mr. Pellicano, to your knowledge, did Evan have his own attorney?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point during the time you were represented by Larry Feldman, do you recall Evan also having another lawyer?
June Chandler: I don't recall that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall the name Barry Rothman?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did you first hear about Barry Rothman?
June Chandler: Before Larry Feldman. That was Evan's attorney.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some point were you represented by Attorney Gloria Allred?
June Chandler: Two seconds. For two seconds.
Mr. Mesereau: It was a little bit more than that, wasn't it?
June Chandler: Two hours. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: You and Evan and Jordan were represented by Gloria Allred initially, correct?
June Chandler: Initially.
Mr. Mesereau: You had meetings with her, correct?
June Chandler: One or two, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And then you went to Attorney Larry Feldman, right?
June Chandler: He came into the picture, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when Gloria Allred represented you, Evan and Jordie?
June Chandler: Before Larry Feldman.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately --
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: -- what year that was?
June Chandler: Yes, '94.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you referred to Gloria Allred by someone?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you wind up being represented by her?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as immaterial.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times did you meet with Mr. Pellicano?
June Chandler: Approximately three times. Three to four times.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know where those meetings took place?
June Chandler: As far as I recall, in his office.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you travel to his office?
June Chandler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you there with your attorney, Michael Freeman, ever?
June Chandler: I don't think so, no, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have discussions with Mr. Pellicano?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever believe he was your investigator?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when was that?
June Chandler: When we had meetings.
Mr. Mesereau: When you had meetings with Mr. Pellicano, you had already retained Michael Freeman as your lawyer, hadn't you?
June Chandler: I don't think so, no.
Mr. Mesereau: What month do you think you first saw Mr. Pellicano?
June Chandler: In August. Approximately August.
Mr. Mesereau: The declaration I referred to earlier was signed on August 10th, 1993, correct?
June Chandler: Okay. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And it's on Freeman & Golden, Lawyers, stationery, correct?
June Chandler: I guess so.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you the declaration?
June Chandler: Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
June Chandler: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: (Indicating.)
June Chandler: Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at the declaration?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And does it appear that that declaration was signed August 10th, 1993?
June Chandler: Yes, it was.
Mr. Mesereau: And it's on Freeman & Golden, Lawyers, stationery, correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And your lawyer helped you prepare this declaration, true?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Michael Freeman representing you in your domestic dispute with Evan?
June Chandler: No. I don't recall. I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: When did he stop representing you, if you know?
June Chandler: Shortly thereafter. Not --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, was Michael Freeman representing you when Gloria Allred was representing you?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Michael Freeman representing you when Larry Feldman was representing you?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall at one point meeting with Robert Shapiro?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when was that?
June Chandler: In Larry Feldman's office.
Mr. Mesereau: How many meetings did you have with Robert Shapiro?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know why he was at the meeting?
June Chandler: I -- I think as part of Michael Jackson's legal team.
Mr. Mesereau: Who, Robert Shapiro?
June Chandler: I think so. I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
June Chandler: It was so long ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, he was there because Michael Jackson's attorneys were claiming extortion, right?
June Chandler: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Robert Shapiro was there because he's a criminal defense lawyer, right?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, excuse me. I want to interpose an objection before the next question comes out. Speculation. She says she doesn't have any recollection of this, so why Mr. Shapiro --
The Court: Stop talking. You're just supposed to give your grounds for the objection.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry. Object. Speculation.
The Court: All right. Overruled. The question -- the last question, would the court reporter read it back, please?
The Court Reporter: Robert Shapiro was there because he's a criminal defense lawyer, right?
The Court: You may answer.
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember also in your meetings, meeting -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. In the meetings you've described with Larry Feldman, Michael Freeman, Robert Shapiro, do you also remember a lawyer named Richard Hirsch being present?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as to all those people and compound.
The Court: It's vague. We'll take our break now.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Mr. Mesereau.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Just very briefly, you and Evan hired attorneys and tried to negotiate a financial settlement before you ever talked to any police officer, right?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You were negotiating for money before you ever reported anything to any police officer in Los Angeles, correct?
June Chandler: Not correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know the dates you hired your attorneys?
June Chandler: After we spoke with the police.
Mr. Mesereau: You're saying that under oath?
June Chandler: That's what I believe, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know that for sure, do you?
June Chandler: I'm sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Your negotiations went on long before you ever went to any police officer in Los Angeles, true?
June Chandler: False.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know when you first went to any police officer?
June Chandler: After the police, after we spoke to the police.
Mr. Mesereau: It was after you spoke to Larry Feldman on a number of visits, correct?
June Chandler: Not correct.
Mr. Mesereau: It was actually Larry Feldman who contacted the police, wasn't it?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't talk to any prosecutor in Los Angeles before you retained Gloria Allred, correct?
June Chandler: Yes. Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't talk to any police officer in Los Angeles before retaining Gloria Allred, correct?
June Chandler: Can you backtrack a bit? Can you --
Mr. Mesereau: You retained Gloria Allred before you ever contacted any police officer in Los Angeles, true?
June Chandler: Not true.
Mr. Mesereau: Who did you contact in the LAPD before you hired Gloria Allred?
June Chandler: The police department. LAPD.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't give any police statement before negotiations had already begun to settle the case, true?
June Chandler: Not correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you call them yourself?
June Chandler: Did I call?
Mr. Mesereau: The police yourself?
June Chandler: Department of Children Services.
Mr. Mesereau: How about police?
June Chandler: No. Department of children Services.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm asking you about the police.
Mr. Sneddon: It's argumentative, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: You were negotiating for money --
The Court: Just a minute.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh, pardon me.
The Court: All right. She did answer it before the objection. Go ahead, Counsel, next question.
Mr. Mesereau: You said you contacted Department of Children Services, correct?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: That's not the police department, is it?
Mr. Sneddon: That's argumentative, Your Honor. And assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Sustained; argumentative.
Mr. Mesereau: And you contacted Department of Children's Services after first talking to a lawyer, true?
June Chandler: Not correct.
Mr. Mesereau: In fact, you personally never called the police department, ever, about anything involving Mr. Jackson, true?
June Chandler: True.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first hire Gloria Allred?
June Chandler: After we spoke to the District Attorney.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first hire Larry Feldman?
June Chandler: After the police were notified, Department of Children's Services, and Lauren Weis, the District Attorney.
Mr. Mesereau: Your strategy was to negotiate a settlement before ever contacting law enforcement, true?
June Chandler: No strategy, sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: And one of the levers you were trying to hang over Mr. Jackson was bad publicity if he didn't pay, right?
June Chandler: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you talked to Mr. Sneddon, did he ever show you the dates when you contacted your first lawyer in this case?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: When you talked to Mr. Sneddon, did he ever show you the dates before any contact was ever made to a police officer?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know when your civil case was first filed?
June Chandler: I'm not sure of the exact date.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know who filed it?
June Chandler: I'm not exactly sure. Sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know when you first contacted Department of Children's Services?
June Chandler: Sometime in August.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't know when you hired Gloria Allred, correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if Gloria Allred contacted Department of Children Services?
June Chandler: I don't know that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know when Evan first hired Barry Rothman?
June Chandler: I do not know that.
Mr. Mesereau: He hired Barry Rothman before any report was made to DCFS, correct?
June Chandler: I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object. Calls for speculation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first hire Attorney Michael Freeman?
Mr. Sneddon: Object as asked and answered.
The Court: I believe she said she didn't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. No further questions.
The Court: All right.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Mrs. Chandler, do you know whether or not in Los Angeles, that the Los Angeles Police Department has sworn peace officers attached to the Child Abuse Unit in the Department of Child Services?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Sorry?
June Chandler: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: Were those the people that you talked to when you were interviewed?
June Chandler: Yes, they were.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you have a recollection at this present time as to specifically when in August you interviewed with them?
June Chandler: Specifically, no.
Mr. Sneddon: Would it refresh your recollection if I showed you a document about that interview?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
June Chandler: Okay. Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: Does that refresh your recollection?
June Chandler: Yes, it does.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to -- I'm sorry, to when you were interviewed by members of the Los Angeles Police Department?
June Chandler: Yes, it does.
Mr. Sneddon: And what was the date on that?
June Chandler: 8-7-93.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, let's go back, if we can. And just to clarify, you were not the one who originally contacted the -- made the report?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know who did, of your own knowledge?
June Chandler: Of my knowledge, it was Jordan Chandler, my son.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, let's go back for just a second. Mr. Mesereau asked you about a meeting on Saturday involving your attorney and myself. Do you recall that?
June Chandler: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And was there also another person that was present with us that I brought along?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember the person's name?
June Chandler: No, I don't remember his name, but he was a detective.
Mr. Sneddon: With the sheriff's department?
June Chandler: With the sheriff's department.
Mr. Sneddon: So he was also present during that entire meeting?
June Chandler: He was -- absolutely, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, he also asked you about conversations that you and I had on the phone. Do you recall that?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And that we had talked a couple of times on the phone?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to those conversations, the first conversation we had, do you recall the substance of that conversation?
June Chandler: That I would be subpoenaed and for -- testifying.
Mr. Sneddon: And did I indicate to you that I wanted to talk to you, to do an interview with you?
June Chandler: That we would be speaking later on, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And did you -- did you have to check with somebody to make sure that was okay because of the confidentiality agreement?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And who was that?
June Chandler: Larry Feldman.
Mr. Sneddon: So is that one of the phone calls that you had with Mr. Feldman, was to make sure --
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- to make sure it was okay for you to talk to me?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, Mr. Mesereau asked you about some countersuit that Michael Jackson alleged against you and members of your family. Do you recall that question?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever pay a penny to Mr. Jackson in any lawsuit to settle anything?
June Chandler: No. No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you indicated that these two children from New Jersey that you mentioned, the Cascios, do you remember the name of the restaurant in New Jersey that they allegedly owned?
June Chandler: Aldo's Restaurant.
Mr. Sneddon: You talked with Mr. Mesereau about the incident that occurred in New York where the lamps got broken and the karate kicks and all that?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Did you subsequently learn that the version of what happened was not truthful?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
June Chandler: Correct.
The Court: Sustained. The answer's stricken.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you subsequently -- can you tell us how you eventually -- let me put it this way: Did you ultimately learn other information about that incident?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: You personally?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you determine from that information that the original version wasn't correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: We talked a little bit in your direct examination about the change-in-custody agreement that Mr. Jackson asked you to sign. Do you recall that?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And you said you did sign it?
June Chandler: I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, after having signed that document, did you ever get custody of your child back?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Mr. Mesereau asked you about your son Jordan and about some things you may or may not have seen with regard to taking showers. And I want to ask you a few questions about that, okay?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: During the time that you were -- you stayed at Neverland Valley Ranch, and your son slept in Mr. Jackson's room - okay? - did you ever see your son come back to the guest cottages to take showers?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Sneddon: During the time that your son was in Monaco and stayed in Mr. Jackson's room for several days in a row, did you ever see your son come back to take showers in your room?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Sneddon: During the time that you were in Florida and Mr. Jackson and your son spent the time together and he was sleeping in Mr. Jackson's room, did you ever see your son come back to your room to take showers or to clean up?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Sneddon: And if I were to ask you that same question with regard to baths - okay? - would there be any different answers?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Or with regard to seeing your son getting dressed in the morning, would there be any different answers?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to the meeting that Mr. Mesereau talked about, where you were at the hideout, Mr. Jackson's hideout, the Century City place -- in Century City? I don't know where it is.
June Chandler: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sneddon: And we're talking about the evening that you described where Mr. Pellicano was talking to Jordan downstairs and you were upstairs with David Schwartz.
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: You told us that lasted about 45 minutes?
June Chandler: Yes, it did.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall whether or not Mr. Jackson was present during that conversation?
June Chandler: I don't recall him being there.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, if I show you your statement that you gave to the Los Angeles District Attorney's Office, might that refresh your recollection to that event?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: May I, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Page 90, Counsel.
June Chandler: Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: Does having seen that statement refresh your recollection as to whether or not Mr. Jackson was present with Mr. Pellicano during Jordan's conversation or interview?
June Chandler: Yes, it does.
Mr. Sneddon: And was he?
June Chandler: Yes, he was present.
Mr. Sneddon: You told the jury that it's been 11 years since you've had any conversations with your son Jordan, correct?
June Chandler: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that by your choice?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Sneddon: You told the jury that as a result of the conversation with Mr. Jackson in Las Vegas where he urged you to trust him - okay? --
June Chandler: Yes. I'll be okay. Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: -- that during that conversation in Las Vegas where Mr. Jackson urged you to trust him, do you recall that?
June Chandler: I do.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you regret ever doing that?
June Chandler: Very much so.
Mr. Sneddon: Nothing further.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Briefly, do you recall Evan hired counsel in June to start negotiating with Mr. Jackson?
June Chandler: No, I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall being in any meetings with Evan and his counsel in June to try and settle the matter?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Mr. Pellicano making settlement offers to Evan on your behalf in June?
June Chandler: No, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall any contact between Evan and lawyers in May?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You never discussed that with Evan at the time?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't you have a lot of -- we're talking about 1993. Didn't you have a lot of contact with Evan at that point about hiring counsel?
June Chandler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And weren't you in a dispute with Evan at that point over custody?
June Chandler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when did that dispute begin, if you know?
June Chandler: In August of '93.
Mr. Mesereau: But you had had problems with Evan for months before that, had you not?
June Chandler: Not -- not terrible.
Mr. Mesereau: And you don't know when he hired his attorney?
June Chandler: No, I don't. No, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. No further questions.
Mr. Sneddon: Nothing further, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down.
The Court: Call your next witness.
Mr. Auchincloss: People call Dwayne Swingler.
The Court: When you get to the witness stand, please face the clerk and raise your right hand.
Message: DWAYNE SWINGLER Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, ma'am.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Dwayne Swingler: My name is Dwayne Swingler; D-w-a-y-n-e, Swingler, S-w-i-n-g-l-e-r.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Good afternoon, Mr. Swingler.
Dwayne Swingler: Good afternoon.
Mr. Auchincloss: What is your current occupation, sir?
Dwayne Swingler: Right now I do stand-in work, movie sets.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And what kind of -- stand-in work, what does that --
Dwayne Swingler: Stand in for stars. It's called second team. They don't use the stars to get the lights bright. They use stand-ins.
Mr. Auchincloss: I see. During the year 2003, at some point during that year, did you -- were you employed by Michael Jackson?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is he the man seated to my right with the long black hair?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you. When did you begin working for Mr. Jackson?
Dwayne Swingler: In June of 2003. Early June of 2003.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what was your -- what was your assignment for Mr. Jackson?
Dwayne Swingler: Supervisor of Neverland.
Mr. Auchincloss: How did you come to get that position?
Dwayne Swingler: I met Michael at a studio, Marvin Gaye's studio in Hollywood.
Mr. Auchincloss: What were you doing at the studio?
Dwayne Swingler: My cousin was engineering Michael's music session, and Michael needed someone to whistle on a track, so my cousin called me and said, “Would you like to come down and whistle on Michael's track?” And I said, “I can't whistle that well, but I would love to come down and meet Michael Jackson”.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Are you yourself a musician?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, I am.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you met Mr. Jackson on that date?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you tell me about -- was that in 2003?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, it was.
Mr. Auchincloss: About what month was it, if you recall?
Dwayne Swingler: That was probably early -- sometime in April.
Mr. Auchincloss: And how did it come about that you were offered employment?
Dwayne Swingler: I hung out at the studio with Michael and his kids, and Chris Carter, maybe four, five days in a row, three, four days in a row, while they were working on the session.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who did you understand Chris Carter to be?
Dwayne Swingler: Michael's personal security.
Mr. Auchincloss: And so somebody offered you employment?
Dwayne Swingler: On the last day there, Chris Carter asked me to come outside. So I walked outside with him, and at that time he told me that, you know, “Michael likes you. He would love to bring you aboard. What are you currently doing right now”?
Mr. Auchincloss: Were you available?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did they tell you what type of job they wanted to hire you for?
Dwayne Swingler: Initially they hired me to be security, along with Chris Carter, to travel with Michael.
Mr. Auchincloss: And how did that work out?
Dwayne Swingler: Well, that didn't work for me because I had triplets. I got three-year-old triplet boys, so....
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. So traveling wasn't an option?
Dwayne Swingler: No. Actually, Michael was the one who said, “If he has triplet boys, then I don't want him to be traveling with me all the time”.
Mr. Auchincloss: So you said you became ranch manager?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: How did that come about?
Dwayne Swingler: I guess Michael suggested to Chris, “If he has triplets, he'll be away from his kids a lot. So maybe we should offer him another job”, and that's when supervisor of Neverland came up.
Mr. Auchincloss: So who offered you that position, I guess is my question?
Dwayne Swingler: I guess Michael. But Chris Carter's the one who told me about the position.
Mr. Auchincloss: At some time did you discuss with Mr. Jackson personally your employment?
Dwayne Swingler: I don't understand the question.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever have a discussion with Mr. Jackson about your employment as ranch manager?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did he ever discuss with you the terms by which you could be terminated if he was dissatisfied with your work?
Dwayne Swingler: He didn't discuss with me personally. But Chris Carter and Joe Marcus did.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did you have an understanding about how you could be terminated?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what was that?
Dwayne Swingler: Grounds of giving up information of where Michael Jackson's whereabouts are, and, you know, there was a rule on the ranch -- I don't know if it came directly from Michael, but, you know, Chris told me and Joe Marcus told me as well, that you can never say no --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay, let's just back up a minute.
Mr. Auchincloss: I think what my question is, did you know -- did you have some indication from Mr. Jackson as to who had authority to terminate you?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And who was that?
Dwayne Swingler: From my understanding, it was only supposed to be Michael Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. At some point during 2003, were you terminated?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Tell me about that. How did that come about?
Dwayne Swingler: I had --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague as to time.
The Court: I'll ask you to clarify the time.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: When were you terminated?
Dwayne Swingler: Early August 2003.
Mr. Auchincloss: And how long had you been working at that point for Mr. Jackson?
Dwayne Swingler: Maybe five, six weeks.
Mr. Auchincloss: When did you start work?
Dwayne Swingler: I was hired in the end of April, early May. But I had to go back to Michigan for a couple of weeks, so the hiring process took awhile. You know, background checks, physicals.
Mr. Auchincloss: When did you start going to Neverland?
Dwayne Swingler: In May.
Mr. Auchincloss: In May?
Dwayne Swingler: Yeah.
Mr. Auchincloss: And when did you start getting a paycheck?
Dwayne Swingler: In June.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And what were you doing there in May?
Dwayne Swingler: I just came out to the ranch to check things out to see the position that I would be, you know, filling.
Mr. Auchincloss: In May, was it understood that you would be the ranch manager?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did you go up there and receive some instruction from anybody as to what the duties were, in May?
Dwayne Swingler: I received, well, sort of from Joe Marcus, some instruction, but not as much as I did once I started in June.
Mr. Auchincloss: What was Mr. Marcus's assignment at that time?
Dwayne Swingler: Ranch manager.
Mr. Auchincloss: So he was ranch manager and you were going to take it over?
Dwayne Swingler: No. Ranch manager, you deal with the majority of the workers outside, the garden, the landscapers, things like that. The carnival, the festival, whatever.
Mr. Auchincloss: What was Joe Marcus doing?
Dwayne Swingler: What do you mean?
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, you said Joe Marcus was ranch manager.
Dwayne Swingler: Right, that was his position. Ranch manager, you deal with all the employees basically outside of the house.
Mr. Auchincloss: And your position was going to be?
Dwayne Swingler: Supervisor. Deal with the employees and Michael and the kids in the house.
Mr. Auchincloss: Oh, in the house?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: So house manager?
Dwayne Swingler: House manager.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Good. So you began work in June, but you went up there for how many weeks to get some training?
Dwayne Swingler: Not really training, just sort of to come check things out, and to see who -- you know, what position I would be taking and where the office was, and things like that.
Mr. Auchincloss: And when was it you were terminated?
Dwayne Swingler: In early August.
Mr. Auchincloss: And how did that come about?
Dwayne Swingler: I had had a meeting with Michael about transferring my position. And I liked working for him. I wanted to work for him somewhere in Los Angeles, because my triplets were only one years old at the time. So I was missing them, them being in Los Angeles and me being here, and me staying the night at Neverland often. Wasn't working for me. So I had a one-on-one meeting with him to be transferred.
Mr. Auchincloss: And how did your termination come about?
Dwayne Swingler: I --
Mr. Auchincloss: Let me ask you this: Were you terminated?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, I was.
Mr. Auchincloss: And how were you terminated?
Dwayne Swingler: I was terminated by Joe Marcus. He -- I arrived at Neverland one morning for work and he told me -- he had changed the locks on me. And then I went into -- I mean, some -- one of the employees -- one of my employees in the house told me Joe came to change the locks. And I said, “Why?” And they said, “I don't know”. And I had already been told by the guard at the gate that Joe --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: So the locks were changed. Did you go talk to Mr. Marcus?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: What did he tell you?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Dwayne Swingler: He told --
Mr. Auchincloss: I can go back to my last question, I guess. I'll withdraw that question, Your Honor.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Auchincloss: And how specifically -- I want you to go directly to the answer on this question. How specifically did you learn that you were terminated?
Dwayne Swingler: I --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Auchincloss: Go ahead.
Dwayne Swingler: I learned directly from Joe Marcus that my services would no longer be needed at Neverland, and that he didn't have to give me a reason. Because I --
Mr. Auchincloss: You asked him for a reason?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, I did. I didn't think I had done anything wrong. Well, I know I hadn't done anything wrong.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So you'd been at Neverland for a little over a month, and you'd worked there for a few weeks before that time as well?
Dwayne Swingler: Well, not worked. But like -- I wasn't getting paid for that time. That was just to come out there and check the ranch out.
Mr. Auchincloss: During the time that you were at Neverland, did you have personal interaction with Michael Jackson?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: On how often a basis?
Dwayne Swingler: If he was there. All the time, if he was there.
Mr. Auchincloss: More than once a day?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And who was responsible for handling Mr. Jackson's appointments while he was on the ranch?
Dwayne Swingler: At Neverland, I would take the -- all the phone calls. It didn't matter who it was calling; mother, father, business person.
Mr. Auchincloss: So if he had an appointment for a day, would you take that -- would that be part of your duties?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: To schedule those appointments?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you have occasion to observe visitors of Mr. Jackson that were child visitors?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you see child visitors spend the night at Neverland?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you see child visitors spend the night in Mr. Jackson's room?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; and violates the Court's order.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who did you see visit Mr. Jackson who was a child visitor?
Mr. Mesereau: I'm going to object. Violates the Court's order.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: When you were at Neverland, did you interact with Mr. Jackson about issues dealing with activities on the ranch?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
The Court: Overruled.
Dwayne Swingler: Issues dealing with activity on the ranch?
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, whatever -- let's back up. What were your duties as house manager?
Dwayne Swingler: To answer all the phone calls. To, you know, schedule the maids. To help the maids out with cleaning rooms and suites. And basically to, you know, take care of whatever Michael and the kids needed.
Mr. Auchincloss: And in terms of the day-to-day issues in terms of running the ranch, can you characterize how -- Mr. Jackson's degree of involvement?
Dwayne Swingler: As far as -- I mean --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague; and relevance.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Dwayne Swingler: Mr. Jackson is in total charge of the ranch.
Mr. Auchincloss: Why do you say that?
Dwayne Swingler: Well, when I was terminated, because of my previous conversation with Chris Carter that only Michael Jackson could terminate me, I called Evvy, which is Michael's personal assistant --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; hearsay.
Mr. Auchincloss: That's fine.
Mr. Mesereau: And relevant as to time.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: So when you were on the ranch, did you have occasion to see Mr. Jackson in terms of making orders at the ranch?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did he make orders?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes. He made some to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Continuing relevance objection, Your Honor, as to time.
The Court: Time?
Mr. Auchincloss: During the time that you were ranch manager, during that five-week period.
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: That's the objection, Your Honor. The time period's irrelevant.
The Court: All right. That's overruled.
Mr. Auchincloss: Go ahead. You can answer that question.
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, I observed it. He made some to me personally.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you have occasion to see individuals, his other employees, in terms of their relationship with Mr. Jackson?
Dwayne Swingler: Meaning like Joe Marcus and Grace and those?
Mr. Auchincloss: I mean -- let's talk about your employees. Did you have employees that were working under you as house manager?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who?
Dwayne Swingler: Cooks?
Mr. Auchincloss: Yeah, just generally speaking.
Dwayne Swingler: Cooks, housekeepers, maids.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And had some of these people been working at the ranch longer than you had?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes. The majority of -- all of them.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did you have occasion to see their interaction with Mr. Jackson?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what level of service did Mr. Jackson expect?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; vague; no foundation.
The Court: It's vague; sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you characterize the demeanor of the employees around Mr. Jackson when they were in his presence?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague; relevance. Particularly the time period.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll be specific.
Mr. Auchincloss: During the time you were ranch manager, or house manager.
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection.
The Court: Overruled.
Dwayne Swingler: Can you ask me the question again?
Mr. Auchincloss: Yeah. My question is, can you characterize the demeanor -- how did these people act, these employees, when they were around Mr. Jackson in his presence?
Dwayne Swingler: I mean, they act like they liked him. Mr. Jackson was nice to people.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did they act like they'd speak their mind around him?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did they act -- did they act comfortable around him?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; vague; relevance; and foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know if -- do you know if Mr. Jackson would fire people at Neverland?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; relevance.
The Court: Foundation; sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, you yourself were fired; is that correct?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know who fired you?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who -- when you were working with Mr. Jackson, did you have occasion to see individuals who were employees of his that were closer than other employees?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague; leading; relevance; foundation.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection, Counsel's fishing for a reason to object to that question.
Mr. Mesereau: I object to the colloquy, move to strike.
The Court: I'll sustain the “vague” objection to that question.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you see employees -- did you see any employees that spent more time with Mr. Jackson than other employees?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; vague; foundation; and relevance.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you see -- well, let's go ahead and make a list. Who did you see that spent more time with Mr. Jackson than other employees?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; foundation; vague.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Dwayne Swingler: Vase -- Grace, I'm sorry. Grace, Chris Carter. Those are the two that I think spent most of the time with Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever see an individual visit the ranch by the name of Dieter Weizner?
Dwayne Swingler: I would have to see a picture to be sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Could we approach, Your Honor? We'd like a proffer.
Mr. Auchincloss: Be happy to make one.
The Court: I don't really need that. I -- it's clear to me where....
Mr. Auchincloss: I show you People's Exhibit No. 17, Mr. Swingler. Can you identify that for me, please?
Dwayne Swingler: I can't say I've seen that gentleman.
Mr. Auchincloss: You haven't seen him?
Dwayne Swingler: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you see -- did you previously have a conversation with Detective Bonner about the facts of this case?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: And in that conversation, did you identify -- just a moment, if you would, please. Did you identify a number of individuals that you thought were within Michael Jackson's inner circle?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; and vague.
Mr. Auchincloss: It's impeachment.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm sorry?
The Court: It's vague.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you identify Dieter Weizner as a member of Michael Jackson's inner circle?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; and foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Dwayne Swingler: In my conversation with Detective Bonner?
Mr. Auchincloss: With Detective Bonner, did you not identify Dieter Weizner specifically as a member of Michael Jackson's inner circle?
Dwayne Swingler: I can't -- I can't really recall, because I don't know the face. I never seen the face before. The name I know. The face I don't.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know the name Dieter Weizner?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you meet a man by the name of Dieter Weizner?
Dwayne Swingler: Looking at the face --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm not asking you about the face.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. He's arguing with the witness. Leading and foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you meet a man by the name of Dieter Weizner?
Dwayne Swingler: I can't remember.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you meet a man -- well --
Dwayne Swingler: Like I say, the name sounds familiar. I know I've heard the name. Maybe I spoke with him on the phone a few times there, but the face didn't --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Calls for speculation; move to strike; nonresponsive.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you meet a man by the name of Ronald Konitzer?
The Court: There's an objection pending.
The Bailiff: Judge, can you turn the microphone on?
The Court: All right. The objection is overruled. And you had another question. Go ahead.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you meet a man by the name of Ronald Konitzer?
Dwayne Swingler: I can't -- by the name -- I would have to see a picture.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you meet two German businessmen?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did they meet with Mr. Jackson?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: On how many occasions?
Dwayne Swingler: Three or four.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you. I have no further questions.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good afternoon.
Dwayne Swingler: Good afternoon.
Mr. Mesereau: My name's Tom Mesereau. I speak for Mr. Jackson.
Dwayne Swingler: How you doing, sir?
Mr. Mesereau: Good. Good. We've never spoken before, right?
Dwayne Swingler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You worked for a five-week period?
Dwayne Swingler: Four and a half, five weeks, yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Four and a half, five weeks. How many days a week did you work?
Dwayne Swingler: Six or seven.
Mr. Mesereau: And the prosecutor asked you about how many meetings Mr. Jackson had with two German individuals, right?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you really know how many meetings there were?
Dwayne Swingler: Around, I'm guessing, three to four.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Move to strike the testimony, Your Honor.
The Court: Denied.
Mr. Mesereau: You're guessing three to four, but you don't really know, right?
Dwayne Swingler: No, I couldn't say. I couldn't pinpoint it. I wasn't --
Mr. Mesereau: You weren't in the meetings, right?
Dwayne Swingler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't remember what they looked like, right?
Dwayne Swingler: I do remember what they looked like if I saw a picture of them, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, the picture the prosecutor showed you, you couldn't identify, right?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you wanted to be transferred to Los Angeles; is that correct?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes. Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you tell -- excuse me, who did you talk to about the transfer?
Dwayne Swingler: Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you explained that the commute and the hours were just too much to raise your family?
Dwayne Swingler: I just wasn't seeing my kids, and they were one years old.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ask Mr. Jackson to be transferred somewhere in Los Angeles?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where was that?
Dwayne Swingler: I just asked him to be transferred to any business in Los Angeles that he had.
Mr. Mesereau: But you really didn't even know if there was a job available in Los Angeles, right?
Dwayne Swingler: No, that's why I was asking.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Right. Okay. And approximately when did you ask him; do you know?
Dwayne Swingler: Maybe three weeks into the job.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And Mr. Jackson was always nice to you, wasn't he?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And as far as you know, there may not have been a job available in Los Angeles, right?
Dwayne Swingler: He told me there was one.
Mr. Mesereau: He told you there was one?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did he say?
Dwayne Swingler: A&R, his record label.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me?
Dwayne Swingler: A&R of his record label.
Mr. Mesereau: Had you ever worked at a record label before?
Dwayne Swingler: No, I hadn't.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. But at some point you learned that you weren't being hired, right?
Dwayne Swingler: No. As a matter of fact, I saw Michael again at his birthday party in Los Angeles and he told me I was still hired.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But it never came through, right?
Dwayne Swingler: No, I'm still waiting for my paycheck now.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You're trying to write a book about your experiences at Neverland, correct?
Dwayne Swingler: Well, no, I'm not trying to write a book about my experiences at Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, didn't you -- excuse me. Did you say Michael Jackson has a record label?
Dwayne Swingler: He told me he had a record label.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know that he doesn't have one?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; assumes facts.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether or not he really has a record label?
Dwayne Swingler: I was just told by him he had a record label.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. Now, you prepared notes for a book called “Entering Neverland, Secrets Behind the Gate”, right?
Dwayne Swingler: Does it have my signature on it? Because I know that within the last month or two, I started jotting down information to myself and somehow my information come up missing out of my house, but whatever.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you prepare notes for a book titled “Entering Neverland, Secrets Behind the Gate” --
Dwayne Swingler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: -- “By Dwayne Swingler, Head Supervisor of Neverland Ranch, Summer of 2003”, did you prepare that?
Dwayne Swingler: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. The answer is, “No”.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you aware of anything like that?
Dwayne Swingler: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't --
Dwayne Swingler: Am I aware of it? What do you mean?
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah. Have you written out anything for a book called “Entering Neverland, Secrets Behind the Gate, by Dwayne Swingler”?
Dwayne Swingler: No, I haven't written anything, or titled anything, or signed anything, or spoke to anybody about, “This is my deal”.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you talked to a group called News of the World?
Dwayne Swingler: Have I?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Dwayne Swingler: Yeah, I spoke with one lady one time, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, who is News of the World?
Dwayne Swingler: To my knowledge, it's a news media overseas.
Mr. Mesereau: And why were you speaking to them?
Dwayne Swingler: Because I was interested in maybe possibly writing down some information to -- to cash in on something like everybody else was, because Michael wasn't -- I hadn't received the paycheck from A&R at the time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you enter into a nondisclosure agreement with News of the World?
Dwayne Swingler: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever seen one?
Dwayne Swingler: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever talk to someone named David Han-Schmidt?
Dwayne Swingler: The same time I spoke with the News of the World lady, he's the one that contacted her and contacted me.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, who is David Han-Schmidt?
Dwayne Swingler: He said that he was a media agent. I don't even know how he got my phone number.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last talk to David Han-Schmidt?
Dwayne Swingler: He -- as a matter of fact, he called me today.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, is he with a public relations company?
Dwayne Swingler: I really don't know what he did. He never clarified that with me. He said he was an agent, he was a producer, he was in public relations. I basically ended the situation.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did anyone ever send you a nondisclosure agreement regarding News of the World?
Dwayne Swingler: No. I haven't signed any nondisclosure agreements, and I haven't taken any money from anyone.
Mr. Mesereau: How many discussions have you had with David Han-Schmidt?
Dwayne Swingler: Three. Four. Can't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: And when was the last one with him? Today?
Dwayne Swingler: He called me today, because he said he heard that I was coming to testify.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you ever put together any notes for a possible book on the computer?
Dwayne Swingler: Excuse me?
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever put any notes for a possible book on your computer?
Dwayne Swingler: No, I haven't.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever written any notes out for a possible book?
Dwayne Swingler: I told you I jotted down some information on a piece of paper, and that's all I've done.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever ask any public relations person to put together a proposal for you?
Dwayne Swingler: No, I haven't.
Mr. Mesereau: But you're thinking of doing it, right, like everybody else?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, I was thinking about doing it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Have you ever seen -- excuse me. Has anyone ever brought to your attention that somebody has prepared notes for a possible book in your name?
Dwayne Swingler: David.
Mr. Mesereau: David Han-Schmidt?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he prepare them, to your knowledge?
Dwayne Swingler: He just said he received papers. I don't know -- like I told you, I don't even know how he got my phone number.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. If I showed you these papers, might it refresh your recollection about where they came from?
Dwayne Swingler: No, it probably wouldn't, because I never typed any papers or wrote out -- the only thing I did was write down notes, jotted down notes on a piece of paper.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And that was about your experience during the five weeks at Neverland?
Dwayne Swingler: That was about my experience totally, not just the five weeks at Neverland. That was my experience with Michael's manager and everything.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever write down on those notes the words “Secrets Behind the Gate”?
Dwayne Swingler: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did David Han-Schmidt tell you how he got your name?
Dwayne Swingler: No, he did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever ask him, “Why did you call me?”
Dwayne Swingler: Well, actually, he started the conversation off, and he just, whew, went straight to talking about a lot of money, so I was listening to him about a lot of money first.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he promise you a lot of money?
Dwayne Swingler: That's what he promised, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How much money did he promise?
Dwayne Swingler: He never said figures. He just said, you know, “You can make a lot of money”. You know, “Why aren't you telling anyone your story?” That's what he said to me.
Mr. Mesereau: It's your understanding that he's located in Phoenix, Arizona?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes. That's where he said he's from.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did he ever tell you he was going to prepare a possible manuscript for you?
Dwayne Swingler: He asked me would I like him to, and I said no. Like I told you, I terminated the conversation when he told me what he wanted to do.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did he want some scandal sheet about Michael, something like that?
Dwayne Swingler: Actually, he's for Michael. He's pro Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he want you to write something about Michael?
Dwayne Swingler: He wanted to speak on Michael's behalf, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how often -- in those three conversations, did you talk about money each time?
Dwayne Swingler: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you ever spoken to Miss Carol Maung, M-a-u-n-g, who is the U.S. editor of News of the World?
Dwayne Swingler: I spoke with her. I spoke with her when she was with David when I got there.
Mr. Mesereau: And did she fax you anything or e-mail you anything?
Dwayne Swingler: Fax me anything or e-mail me anything?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Dwayne Swingler: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. When you were at Neverland working --
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- you had no direct contact with any member of the Arvizo family, right?
Dwayne Swingler: The Arvizo family?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Dwayne Swingler: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: That means you didn't have any contact with the Arvizos?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember meeting Dominick Cascio at Neverland?
Dwayne Swingler: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And he's the -- did you speak to him?
Dwayne Swingler: Often.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And to your knowledge, he's a father?
Dwayne Swingler: He's a father?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Dwayne Swingler: I didn't know he was a father.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did he ever talk to you about work he did?
Dwayne Swingler: Did Dominick ever talk to me about work he did?
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah.
Dwayne Swingler: Some work at the restaurant that his family owned.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I have no further questions, Your Honor.
Mr. Auchincloss: Counsel? (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Auchincloss: Maybe we should approach. Your Honor, may we approach?
The Court: For what?
Mr. Auchincloss: Concerning the materials that counsel is using to cross-examine the witness on.
The Court: All right. (Discussion held off the record at sidebar.)
Mr. Auchincloss: If I could just have a moment, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: I think I can finish with this witness, Your Honor. Just one question.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Swingler, do you know if David Schmidt has any affiliation with Michael Jackson?
Dwayne Swingler: I just know that he has a website; that he's, you know, pro Michael Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Thank you. I have no further questions.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down.
Dwayne Swingler: Thank you, sir.
The Court: Do you have another witness?
Mr. Auchincloss: (To Mr. Sneddon) Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: You.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you want me to do it? (Laughter.)
Mr. Sneddon: We're trying to figure out which one of us should take responsibility for telling you “No”. (Laughter.)
Mr. Sneddon: And being the great delegator I am, I'm leaving it up to Gordon.
Mr. Auchincloss: We have no further witnesses, Your Honor. We just anticipated that there would be -- it would take a little longer to get through these witnesses today.
The Court: All right. There's a couple of items that we can take up. I'll go ahead and excuse the jury. (To the jury) Remember the admonitions I've given you and I'll see you tomorrow morning at 8:30. But it's a half day tomorrow, remember. How could you forget, right?
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: All right. First, there was -- my understanding is that the special master will have the report available tomorrow morning for you on the computer hard drives.
Mr. Sneddon: On both of them, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes. They're working on some last-minute details. So it will be available tomorrow morning.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at that point, then, Your Honor, does it need to go to you for final decision, or is that the decision?
The Court: I don't know. I haven't read the report. I was handed a rough draft of one by my research attorney this morning -- well, not this morning, a few minutes ago. And I asked him to talk to Mr. Sanger about an issue. So I can't answer your question.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
The Court: I suspect it doesn't need to go beyond what's been done by the special master, so --
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
The Court: But I won't know till I've looked at it. The second thing is that both of you have submitted points and authorities on Janet Arvizo. The District Attorney's I've read. And I just received the defense, so I haven't had time to read yours. When do you expect to call Janet Arvizo?
Mr. Zonen: Either tomorrow or Wednesday. Depending on if we finish the witnesses scheduled before her tomorrow. If not --
The Court: They can't hear behind you. (To the audience) He said either tomorrow or Wednesday.
Mr. Zonen: As early as tomorrow.
The Court: As early as tomorrow. Okay. Well, I'm not really prepared to deal with that issue. We'll have to deal with it before she's called, but I'll need to study the material you've given me, the defense has given me.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you.
The Court: Was there anything else pending?
Mr. Sanger: On that issue, Your Honor, as I explained to you, as I explained to your clerk, we were served with their papers this morning. We thought they might call Ms. Arvizo today.
The Court: Right.
Mr. Sanger: So we put something together very quickly, and I would like to have an opportunity to explain to the Court a little more, in a little more organized fashion, where this goes, now that we've had a few more minutes to think about it.
The Court: I'll make sure you have that opportunity.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you.
The Court: All right. Then we'll recess until tomorrow morning.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:30 p.m.
