Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Tuesday, April 12, 2005 8:30 a.m.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: Good morning, everyone.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
The Court: Ready to proceed? Go ahead.
Mr. Zonen: We'll call our next witness, Major Jay Jackson, to the stand.
The Court: Come forward and raise your right hand, please. Face the clerk.
Message: JAY D. JACKSON Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Jay Jackson: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated.
Jay Jackson: Thank you.
The Clerk: State and spell your name for the record.
Jay Jackson: Yes, Jay D. Jackson. Spelled J-a-y. Middle initial D. Jackson, J-a-c-k-s-o-n.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Jay Jackson: Thank you.
Mr. Zonen: May I proceed, Your Honor?
The Court: You may.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Sir, what is your current occupation?
Jay Jackson: I am in the -- I'm on active duty with the Army reserve.
Mr. Zonen: How long have you been in the Army reserve?
Bailiff Cortez: Speak right in here, please.
Jay Jackson: Thank you. I've been in the Army reserve for 23 years, some of that active duty, some of that reserved part time.
Mr. Zonen: Most recently you've been on active duty for what period?
Jay Jackson: About five years.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Were you in Desert Storm?
Jay Jackson: The first one, yes, sir, I was.
Mr. Zonen: And what position did you hold at that time?
Jay Jackson: I ran a prisoner of war camp processing area. We ran enemy prison of war through the prisoner of war camp.
Mr. Zonen: In which country?
Jay Jackson: In Saudi Arabia.
Mr. Zonen: Your current rank with the Army reserves is what?
Jay Jackson: Major.
Mr. Zonen: And what are your responsibilities?
Jay Jackson: Currently I'm working in a command where we do mobilizations, we mobilize soldiers to go to war.
Mr. Zonen: Are you currently married to Janet Ventura Jackson?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I am.
Mr. Zonen: She has taken your name after your marriage; is that correct?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have children together?
Jay Jackson: We do. We have one. A little boy.
Mr. Zonen: And do you have other children living in your household?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, we do. Three additional children.
Mr. Zonen: And they are who?
Jay Jackson: Gavin, Star and Davellin.
Mr. Zonen: When did you first meet Janet Arvizo?
Jay Jackson: Back in July of 2002.
Mr. Zonen: How did you meet her?
Jay Jackson: I was working one Saturday, and she came -- she knocked on the door, and I -- it's a secured facility, and I let her in. She had Star with her.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What were the children involved in at that time, the boys?
Jay Jackson: There's a Sea Cadet Command right there that is for children between the ages of, say, 11 and 18 years old. And she was bringing her children there for that program.
Mr. Zonen: And both of them were involved, Star and Gavin?
Jay Jackson: Yes, they were.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Then that's how you met her?
Jay Jackson: That is how I met them.
Mr. Zonen: And began dating after that?
Jay Jackson: We talked. I met her. She said -- I was sitting in the hallway and walked by her, and got into a conversation, and then -- I got her phone number, I think. And then about a month later, we talked on the phone for about a month. And then a month later she was telling me that Gavin and Star were graduating from the Sea Cadet program, a little two-week training or one-week training. And so we decided that our first date we would go down there for that graduation, and we did.
Mr. Zonen: And you've been married how long now?
Jay Jackson: Oh, goodness. May 29th will be one year.
Mr. Zonen: I'd like to direct your attention back to February of '03, 2003.
Jay Jackson: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Will you tell us in what neighborhood you were living at that time?
Jay Jackson: The mid-Wilshire district, also known as Korea Town.
Mr. Zonen: And the street that you were living on was what?
Jay Jackson: St. Andrews Place.
Mr. Zonen: Was Janet Arvizo living with you at that time?
Jay Jackson: She was.
Mr. Zonen: Was she living with you full time at that time?
Jay Jackson: No, she wasn't. She had a place over on Soto Street in East L.A.
Mr. Zonen: And the boys, where were they living?
Jay Jackson: The same place. Both places.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Do you remember or do you recall where they were attending school at that time?
Jay Jackson: Well, I don't know the name of the school, but it was in East L.A. And then because there was a lot of problems at that school - they were, you know, being pushed into getting into gangs, and there was some altercations - we thought it was a good idea if we enrolled them in John Burroughs, which is a real good school in the mid-Wilshire district.
Mr. Zonen: And that was closer to your home; is that right?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, it was. Very close.
Mr. Zonen: And did you do that?
Jay Jackson: Sir?
Mr. Zonen: Did you do that, enroll them at John Burroughs?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, we did.
Mr. Zonen: That is John Burroughs Middle School?
Jay Jackson: That is John Burroughs Middle School.
Mr. Zonen: Was your address, then, on St. Andrews Place the address that was used?
Jay Jackson: That is correct, yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Did Janet Arvizo maintain the Soto Street address?
Jay Jackson: She did, sir.
Mr. Zonen: For what period of time?
Jay Jackson: Through about November of '04, I believe.
Mr. Zonen: Had you ever gone to Neverland?
Jay Jackson: I've been to Neverland one time.
Mr. Zonen: And when was that; do you recall?
Jay Jackson: It was in -- it was before November of '02, so it was in the summer, I believe, of '02. I was still living in West L.A., and we were invited by Chris Tucker and his girlfriend; that they were having a little-baby birthday party.
Mr. Zonen: Were you the only ones invited to Neverland for that occasion?
Jay Jackson: Oh, no, sir. There was two busfuls of people.
Mr. Zonen: You met the bus where; do you recall?
Jay Jackson: It was -- you know, I think it was the Beverly Hills Hilton or something like that. It was one of the hotels in the local area.
Mr. Zonen: Did you spend the day at Neverland?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, we did.
Mr. Zonen: Did you spend the night at Neverland?
Jay Jackson: We left in the evening, late in the evening.
Mr. Zonen: And then returned back to Los Angeles?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Zonen: How many people, approximately, to your recollection, attended that party?
Jay Jackson: 40 or 50, maybe.
Mr. Zonen: Did you see Michael Jackson at any time during that occasion?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Had you ever met Michael Jackson?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, not until today.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in early February of 2003, did you become aware of the fact that a documentary was being shown on television?
Jay Jackson: I'm not sure if I knew at that moment, but I know that Janet received a call from either Michael or somebody in his entourage asking him to go to Miami -- asking her to go to Miami, and with the kids.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
The Court: I'll strike after the word “moment. “
Mr. Zonen: Did Janet Arvizo and the children go to Miami?
Jay Jackson: Yes, they did.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know what prompted that?
Jay Jackson: Um --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation and hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: Yes or no; does he know.
The Court: I sustained the objection. I'm sorry.
Mr. Zonen: Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't hear.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know on what day they left for Miami?
Jay Jackson: I just know approximately it was early February.
Mr. Zonen: Had there been any discussion in the household about Michael Jackson prior to going to Miami?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, not really.
Mr. Zonen: Had there been any problems in the household that dealt in some fashion with either Neverland or Michael Jackson prior to Janet Arvizo going to Miami?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, not at all.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
The Court: Overruled. The answer was, “No, sir, not at all”. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: Had there been any discussion about Michael Jackson prior to her going to Miami in your household, say, within a week or two prior to their departure?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: And could you tell us approximately what percentage of the week Janet Arvizo was living at your home as opposed to her residence on Soto Street?
Jay Jackson: Three or four days a week.
Mr. Zonen: Is that during the time that the kids were at school?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir. That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: Did Janet Arvizo have parents living in the Los Angeles area?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir. In the El Monte area.
Mr. Zonen: And had you visited their home on occasion?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: And El Monte is where in Los Angeles County?
Jay Jackson: I -- I'm not sure exactly. I mean, it's in -- El Monte is in -- it's in -- I mean, Los Angeles area. I'm not sure exactly how to -- because I'm not from California, I really can't lay out where everything is from.
Mr. Zonen: We do hear an accent in your voice. Where are you from?
Jay Jackson: Virginia.
Mr. Zonen: Is that where you grew up?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know in advance that Janet Arvizo and her children were going to be going to Miami?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I didn't. I received -- excuse me one second.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead.
Jay Jackson: Janet just told me that she was going to my --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
The Court: I'll strike after “I didn't”.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry, I don't have the ability to read it. I'm not hearing everything you're saying at the moment.
The Court: I'm sorry. The question was, “Did you know in advance that Janet Arvizo and her children were going to be going to Miami?” “No, sir, I didn't”. Then after that I struck his answer.
Mr. Zonen: When did you first learn that they were going to Miami?
Jay Jackson: I believe Janet told me right before they were ready to leave that they were going.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; hearsay; move to strike.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: And the answer's in?
The Court: The answer's in.
Jay Jackson: Janet -- should I --
The Court: No.
Jay Jackson: No? Thank you.
Mr. Zonen: We'll move on to the next question. And did they, in fact, leave that day?
Jay Jackson: That day or the next day, yes, sir. Within a day or two, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have conversations -- without getting into the content of them, did you have conversations with Janet Arvizo while she was in Miami?
Jay Jackson: I believe she called me, yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have conversations with any of the kids while they were in Miami?
Jay Jackson: No. No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Without getting into the content, did you know the purpose of the trip to Miami?
Jay Jackson: I knew that they were going to be going there to do a press conference.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know -- again, without getting into the content, did you know what the purpose of the press conference was?
Jay Jackson: I'm not sure that I knew exactly at that time, but I knew very shortly thereafter what was going on with the documentary.
Mr. Zonen: Did you understand that it had something to do with the documentary?
Jay Jackson: I believe I may have known, but I didn't know the specifics.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Was there, in fact, a documentary about Michael Jackson shown on television that you saw within a few days thereafter?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And how did you know that it was going to be on television?
Jay Jackson: I believe I saw something on T.V. that said it was coming on.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know in advance that that documentary would feature any of Janet Arvizo's children?
Jay Jackson: I believe that there was some indication that -- yes, that the children were going to be on there.
Mr. Zonen: Did you watch the documentary in its entirety?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Did it, in fact, feature Janet Arvizo's children?
Jay Jackson: It did, yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: At the time you watched that documentary, was Janet Arvizo and her children in Miami? Were they in Miami?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, they were in Miami.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time were you contacted by reporters from any news agency, presumably reporters from the news agency?
Jay Jackson: I wasn't contacted by them. But I did talk to several -- two reporters, British reporters, at Janet's Soto Street apartment.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember when that was?
Jay Jackson: It was right -- I guess right after -- it was right before the documentary aired in the United States.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And what did they want to do with you?
Jay Jackson: They -- well, when I was -- I took Janet and the kids back to that Soto Street apartment. And Davellin was at the apartment, and she said that -- either two journalists or two guys had just knocked on the door asking for Janet. I saw them at the end of the hall. I walked down to ask them what they were -- who they were with, and what they wanted.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What did they tell you?
Jay Jackson: They said that they were with a British tabloid, and that they wanted to do a story on the family as it pertained to Michael Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did they actually use the word “tabloid”?
Jay Jackson: I'm not sure if they did. I think I found that out later.
Mr. Zonen: That may have been your conclusion?
Jay Jackson: It may have been, yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: I can't imagine a reporter saying they're with a tabloid.
Jay Jackson: Right.
Mr. Zonen: Did they say to you what it was exactly that they wanted to talk to you about?
Jay Jackson: They didn't say specifically, no. They just said that they wanted to have a conversation, they wanted to do an interview with the family, and they wanted to take some photographs of the family.
Mr. Zonen: And did you understand this to relate to Michael Jackson in some fashion?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Did they tell you that that's what they wanted to do?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, they did.
Mr. Zonen: Now, I believe you said this was prior to the screening of the documentary “Living With” --
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Was this prior to the screening of the documentary --
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, it was.
Mr. Zonen: -- that you saw? The documentary we're talking about, can you tell us the name of it, if you recall?
Jay Jackson: “Living with Michael Jackson”.
Mr. Zonen: Was it a documentary that featured a man by the name of Martin Bashir?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, it did.
Mr. Zonen: At the time you talked to these two reporters, did you have a sense of what was going on at that point?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you either request payment for an interview or did they offer you payment for an interview?
Jay Jackson: Well, I said -- again, we have to put it in context. They --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
Mr. Zonen: Let me withdraw the question.
Jay Jackson: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us what the discussion was with regards to payment.
Jay Jackson: The discussion was -- I asked them what was it that they were going -- how they were going to compensate the family --
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Jay Jackson: -- for doing this. And he said -- he said, “We can probably give them four to five hundred dollars”.
Mr. Zonen: What did you say?
Jay Jackson: I said, “I don't think that's going to happen”.
Mr. Zonen: What did you understand -- what did you think that they wanted to ask this family?
Jay Jackson: I don't think I really knew. I believe that they were looking for something negative on Michael Jackson as it related to the children.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know anything negative about Michael Jackson at that time?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, we did not. I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Had Janet Arvizo or her children at any time expressed any kind of negative comment to you about Michael Jackson up to that point?
Jay Jackson: None.
Mr. Zonen: Were you aware as to whether or not the children had visited Neverland prior to that date?
Jay Jackson: I knew they had a relationship with Michael Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any reason to believe that relationship was anything but positive?
Jay Jackson: That's all I believed it was.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell those two reporters that?
Jay Jackson: I did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And was that before or after or during the conversation about payment?
Jay Jackson: I'm not real clear. It was a back-and-forth about that. But I said, you know, “If you're looking for dirt”, you know, “This” -- “I don't believe there's anything negative to say”. And they continued to ask for it. And they said, “Let me get back with my boss and we'll get back to you tomorrow”. And I don't know if I gave him my phone number, or whether he got it, or -- I probably gave it to him. Although some reporters tend to be able to find your phone number.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you ask for more money than three or four hundred dollars?
Jay Jackson: No, I just said that wasn't going to be acceptable.
Mr. Zonen: And what did you mean by that?
Jay Jackson: Well, I think I was -- you know, I was intrigued by it. I have never had anybody come up asking to pay for any kind of story of any kind. And maybe I was -- I was the one that initially asked, you know, “Is there any compensation for the family?” But I think that I just thought that was the standard in the industry. I meant no malice by it.
Mr. Zonen: Did they tell you at any time during this initial interview that it had something to do with the documentary that featured in England?
Jay Jackson: That featured what, sir?
Mr. Zonen: That was shown in England, that was aired on television in England.
Jay Jackson: They mentioned something about a documentary in England, but they really were vague.
Mr. Zonen: And did you have any other independent information about it at that time?
Jay Jackson: I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a follow-up conversation with them?
Jay Jackson: I did.
Mr. Zonen: And when was the follow-up conversation?
Jay Jackson: I believe it was the next day, or the day after that.
Mr. Zonen: Was this before or after Janet Arvizo and her children went to Miami?
Jay Jackson: They had not left yet.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Had you told Janet Arvizo about your initial conversation with these two reporters?
Jay Jackson: I mean, while Janet and the family were in the apartment. But no, I did not talk to them specifically about any conversation I was having with the British reporters.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Do you know the name of the reporter or reporters who you talked to on this first occasion?
Jay Jackson: David Gardner, Garner or Gardner, and Alec Byrne.
Mr. Zonen: And then you said there was a follow-up conversation over the telephone?
Jay Jackson: Right.
Mr. Zonen: Perhaps a day or two later?
Jay Jackson: Perhaps -- yes, it was a day or two later.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recall with which person this conversation took place?
Jay Jackson: I'm sorry, sir?
Mr. Zonen: With which person did you have this --
Jay Jackson: My conversations were with David Gardner.
Mr. Zonen: Did Mr. Gardner talk more about wanting to have an interview with the family?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
Mr. Zonen: I'll withdraw the question.
Mr. Zonen: What did Mr. Gardner say?
Jay Jackson: He continued to say he wanted to have an interview with the family and that he was going to offer additional money; that his boss, I guess, had allowed something like $15,000, and that he wanted to bring them to a hotel or somewhere and do a full spread with them. And I declined that.
Mr. Zonen: You declined $15,000?
Jay Jackson: I did.
Mr. Zonen: To say nice things about Michael Jackson?
Jay Jackson: Well, you know, at that time I -- I really -- wasn't really in a position to make that decision. I knew Janet wouldn't do that.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; move to strike.
Mr. Zonen: Well --
Mr. Mesereau: Nonresponsive.
The Court: That's stricken. After the word “decision”, that's stricken, the last sentence.
Mr. Zonen: Why did you say no?
Jay Jackson: The more I thought about it, the less I liked the idea.
Mr. Zonen: Why? What was it that didn't appeal to you? $15,000 seems like a lot of money.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Admonish the prosecutor not to make gratuitous remarks.
The Court: Don't make gratuitous remarks. (Laughter.)
Mr. Zonen: I'm admonished.
The Court: And that goes for all of you. (Laughter.)
Mr. Zonen: What about $15,000 didn't you want to have?
Jay Jackson: Sir, I don't think -- you know, at that time I remember going through the thought process of, you know, this would be -- we could use this money. But, you know, the more I thought about it, these children were going to be on television, and it wasn't -- it just wasn't going to be an appropriate thing to do to this family.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, in the course of this conversation, this was also prior to your viewing “Living with Michael Jackson”?
Jay Jackson: That is correct, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Was it prior to your knowing about “Living with Michael Jackson”?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you ever communicate with Janet Arvizo this particular offer?
Jay Jackson: I did not.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you ever make any kind of a counteroffer for more money?
Jay Jackson: No, I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Were there any other discussions with this reporter after this phone call?
Jay Jackson: Yes, he -- you know, after they left for Miami, I received a phone call from him. And I said -- you know, he continued to want to have a conversation about doing an interview. And I told him, “Sir, I can't” -- you know, “The family is not even in the area now. There's nothing that I can do”. He continued to call. He called again. Several months later, he says, “Well, I'd just like to have a cup of coffee with you”. I said, “I'm not interested in that”. And then when the raid on Neverland occurred, again he called me back, and in some ways made a threat. He said, you know, “I haven't given your information to any other organizations”. And I said, “Sir, this is a military phone line. Please do not call here again”. That was the last consideration I had with him.
Mr. Zonen: Have you had a conversation with any other reporters attempting to get a story from you?
Jay Jackson: I have not had any detailed conversations. I have had a number of reporters contact me. How they get my number I do not know. But they called my office primarily. And they have shown up at various -- at various locations like my apartment.
Mr. Zonen: Have you accepted money from anybody?
Jay Jackson: Zero. We have not accepted a penny.
Mr. Zonen: For any kind of a story?
Jay Jackson: For anything.
Mr. Zonen: Have you given a story to anybody?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I have not.
Mr. Zonen: Have you promised a story to anybody?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Have you made arrangements to accept money in the future in exchange for a story?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have any intention of giving a story in the future?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have any intention of accepting money for a story in the future?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Now, when they left for Miami, “they” being Janet Arvizo and her children, when did you expect them to return?
Jay Jackson: I didn't have a specific date, you know. They were -- they knew Michael, and if that's what they were going to do, I wasn't going to get involved with all of that. But I didn't anticipate them being gone more than three or four days.
Mr. Zonen: When you saw “Living with Michael Jackson”, did any part of that documentary disturb you?
Jay Jackson: Yes, absolutely. The --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; move to strike; and leading.
The Court: Leading is overruled. Relevancy is sustained.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Where did they go? Did they return to Los Angeles after their trip to Miami?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir. They came back from Miami and I believe went straight to Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: All right. So they didn't come to Los Angeles?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Did --
Jay Jackson: Not that I'm aware of.
Mr. Zonen: Were you contacted by Janet Arvizo?
Jay Jackson: I was contacted by her on a couple of occasions.
Mr. Zonen: Now, during the course of the conversations that you had from her, can you tell us approximately how many phone calls you had from her while she was at Neverland?
Jay Jackson: During this period of time?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Jay Jackson: I can't tell you the specific number. But it was -- it was several phone calls that I received from her over a two- or three- or four-day period.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. How did she sound to you?
Jay Jackson: She was distressed.
Mr. Zonen: Had she been distressed prior to going to Miami?
Jay Jackson: No, not at all.
Mr. Zonen: Had there been any noticeable problems in your family prior to her going to Miami?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Were the kids healthy?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Were the kids in school?
Jay Jackson: The kids were in school.
Mr. Zonen: In the course of her conversations with you over the telephone, did she tell you why she was distressed?
Jay Jackson: She did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: That would be state of mind.
Mr. Mesereau: And foundation.
The Court: I think I'll allow the “yes” or “no” answer to whether or not she told him. That doesn't get to the real issue.
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was that a yes or no?
Jay Jackson: Could you repeat the question, please?
Mr. Zonen: Did she tell you -- well, maybe the court reporter should repeat the question.
The Court Reporter: In the course of her conversations with you over the telephone, did she tell you why she was distressed?
Mr. Zonen: Yes or no.
Jay Jackson: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What did she tell you was the reason for her distress?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Hearsay; relevance; foundation; relevance.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: During the period of time that you had conversations with her, did she appear to you to be any less stressed as time went on?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, did she return to Los Angeles?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, she did.
Mr. Zonen: With her children?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, with her children.
Mr. Zonen: Did they go to your home or some other location?
Jay Jackson: They went to El Monte. They went to her mother's house.
Mr. Zonen: And did you visit them soon thereafter?
Jay Jackson: I picked them up. Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Zonen: How long did they stay in the Los Angeles area?
Jay Jackson: Several days, probably three or four days. You're talking about at my apartment or at her mother's?
Mr. Zonen: At --
Jay Jackson: Total?
Mr. Zonen: At her mother's and at your apartment.
Jay Jackson: I would say three to four days, but that's speculation.
Mr. Zonen: During that period of time, were you getting any telephone calls at your apartment?
Jay Jackson: She -- Janet was talking to me -- oh, okay. What happened was that I went and picked her up from El Monte, brought her back to the house, and then I started receiving phone calls from a gentleman by the name of Frank.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did Frank have a last name?
Jay Jackson: Tyson, I believe. But at the time I think I only knew “Frank”. I don't think I knew his last name.
Mr. Zonen: How many conversations did you have with Frank Tyson?
Jay Jackson: During that time, I didn't have many conversations with Frank. I might have picked up the phone and passed it to Janet. I believe that there was one -- one phone call maybe that I actually talked to him in any detail.
Mr. Zonen: And the phone -- excuse me, I'm sorry. In that detailed conversation that you had, do you remember the content of that conversation?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: It would be a statement in furtherance, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. I'll admit it for the limited purposes that we discussed earlier on the conspiracy charges, the statement in furtherance of the conspiracy.
Mr. Zonen: The question was, do you recall the content of that conversation?
Jay Jackson: The content of the conversation was, is that Frank wanted to know what kind of car I drove.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Jay Jackson: And I asked him why he wanted to know what kind of car I drove. And he said his girlfriend in New York was doing some kind of survey on what people drove in Los Angeles. I thought it was quite strange. But at this point I didn't really understand what was happening, so I gave him that information.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And you told him what kind of a car you drove; is that correct?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ultimately have an opportunity to view surveillance tapes?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And were they surveillance tapes of you?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, they were.
Mr. Zonen: And were they surveillance tapes of you in the car that you described?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, they were.
Mr. Zonen: Can you tell us how many phone calls were coming from Frank during the time that Janet Arvizo was staying at your house after her first return from Neverland?
Jay Jackson: She was receiving phone calls continuously.
Mr. Zonen: What does that mean, “continuously”?
Jay Jackson: Every 15 to 20 to 30 minutes.
Mr. Zonen: Throughout the day?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Were they always from Frank?
Jay Jackson: They seemed to be from Frank.
Mr. Zonen: Were you able to hear any portion of the conversation?
Jay Jackson: Janet was --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Jay Jackson: -- somewhat emotional.
The Court: Nonresponsive. Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Were you able to hear any portion of the conversation? Yes or no.
Jay Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Do you know if those conversations went on for long periods of time?
Jay Jackson: They did.
Mr. Zonen: Without getting into the content of her end of the conversation, tell us what her mood was like, what her manner or her demeanor was like.
Jay Jackson: She was emotional. She was crying. And she was sitting in the closet having these conversations with Frank and -- I mean, I can tell you what I heard, but --
Mr. Zonen: Let's not go into that at the moment. You said she was sitting in the closet?
Jay Jackson: She was -- it's a long closet in the bedroom back in the back of the room. And she would sit in the closet. She was -- she would be -- she was very distressed.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Jay Jackson: She was crying.
Mr. Zonen: Were you able to hear her end of the conversation?
Jay Jackson: I only heard bits and pieces, but, yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: What could you hear her saying?
Jay Jackson: She at that --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: As to her state of mind.
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection.
The Court: Let's see, she's -- all right. I'll overrule the objection and allow her statement in for her state of mind.
Mr. Zonen: What did you hear, her comments?
Jay Jackson: I heard her comments that she was very disturbed about two gentlemen's treatment of her, one being a gentleman named Ronald and another being a gentleman by the name of Dieter.
Mr. Zonen: Did she, in fact, return back to Neverland?
Jay Jackson: She did, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recall if a person -- do you know a person named Brad Miller?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I met him one time.
Mr. Zonen: Can you tell us who Brad will Miller is?
Jay Jackson: As far as I understood, Brad Miller's a security detail for Michael Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: When and where did you meet Brad Miller?
Jay Jackson: Brad Miller showed up at the house one evening during this period of time when Janet and the children were there. And I asked Janet who he was, and she said he was a security detail for Michael Jackson. He came in and did an audiotaped interview of the family.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have a sense of when that was? If you don't know the date, say so.
Jay Jackson: Yeah, I don't know the date.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how many days Janet Arvizo and her children were back in Los Angeles by the time Brad Miller came by?
Jay Jackson: Probably two or three days.
Mr. Zonen: Which residence was it that he came to?
Jay Jackson: My residence on St. Andrews Place.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a conversation with Brad Miller prior to his arrival at the apartment?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know in advance that he was going to be coming to the apartment?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know in advance the purpose of his visit to the apartment?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I did not.
Mr. Zonen: When he came to the apartment, did you talk with him?
Jay Jackson: I was cordial, offered him a drink. But no, sir, not other than that.
Mr. Zonen: Did he explain to you his presence in the apartment?
Jay Jackson: No, I don't think so.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us what happened with Brad Miller when he was at the apartment.
Jay Jackson: He showed up at the apartment. Janet seemed to be anticipating his arrival. I asked what he was coming for. She said -- I guess they were going to do an interview of some type, an audio interview. I'm not even sure if that was said. But he showed up and there was a phone call. There was a phone call between him and, I guess Frank, because he passed the phone to Janet, and Janet talked to him, to Frank. And then they came in, and they sat down around the table. It's a coffee table in the living room. And they all circled around it, and they had an interview.
Mr. Zonen: Was that interview tape-recorded, to your knowledge?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, it was.
Mr. Zonen: Did you see the tape-recording?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Who did you believe Brad Miller worked for?
Jay Jackson: Michael Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a sense of the purpose of that interview?
Jay Jackson: I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you listen to any part of the interview?
Jay Jackson: I was up and down throughout the entire time, so I really did not. I think -- I assume it was in relation to the “Living with Michael Jackson”, and that it was just to buffet his story that nothing had happened.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you at any time ask him any questions about what was going on?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ask him any questions about the two men that Janet had expressed concern about?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Were you expecting that Janet Arvizo and the children would be returning to Neverland?
Jay Jackson: You know what? At this point I'm not even sure I knew that. You know what? Janet had this relationship with Michael --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive.
Mr. Zonen: The answer was you didn't know?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I did not know.
The Court: I'll strike the last sentence. Go ahead.
Mr. Zonen: At the time that you were in the apartment during this interview, did you not know whether they would be returning?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I did not.
Mr. Zonen: How long did that interview go for?
Jay Jackson: Probably two hours, two hours and 15 minutes, something like that.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have a recollection of any part of that interview, the content of that interview at all?
Jay Jackson: Not really, sir, I don't.
Mr. Zonen: Did Janet Arvizo and her children return to Neverland after that interview?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, they did. I believe it was like the next day.
Mr. Zonen: Your apartment on St. Andrews Place was how large?
Jay Jackson: It's about 1100 square foot, one bedroom.
Mr. Zonen: One bedroom and a living room?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: And at times all of you were staying there at that apartment?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: When they went back to Neverland, did you know in advance that they were going?
Jay Jackson: I mean, at the last minute, I believe I knew that they were going.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how they got to Neverland?
Jay Jackson: Sure. Someone came and picked them up.
Mr. Zonen: You said, “At the last minute”. What does that mean?
Jay Jackson: It means that I -- you know, she wasn't telling me specifically what was happening. And I wasn't asking. So I think she might have told me that they were leaving, but I really -- I'm not clear that they were leaving.
Mr. Zonen: All right. When they went back to Neverland, do you know if they went back during the day or in the evening?
Jay Jackson: Seems to me that they went in the afternoon.
Mr. Zonen: And when was the next time you saw Janet Arvizo or her children?
Jay Jackson: That same night Janet came back. Late at night.
Mr. Zonen: Without her children?
Jay Jackson: Without her children.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What was her mood or her affect at that time?
Jay Jackson: She was very emotional.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ask her where the children were?
Jay Jackson: I assumed that they were still at the ranch.
Mr. Zonen: Did you talk about what had happened?
Jay Jackson: She didn't want to talk about it.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know what day it was that she returned? Do you have a sense of it?
Jay Jackson: Early February, but I really don't have a date.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how much time had gone by since the Miami trip at this point that she came back?
Jay Jackson: Maybe a week.
Mr. Zonen: Now, when she came back, how long was it before you saw the kids next?
Jay Jackson: At that point, I didn't see them for probably three weeks. I don't know. It was a long time.
Mr. Zonen: Was there a meeting at your house involving the department of --
Jay Jackson: I stand corrected, sir. Can I go back on the last statement?
Mr. Zonen: Yes. Go ahead.
Jay Jackson: They -- they apparently did a CPS -- a Department of Child & Family Services interview after Janet left to go do the video that night. The next morning they all showed back up, and I did see the children but it was briefly.
Mr. Zonen: Now, you mentioned a couple of things we're going to talk about in order.
Jay Jackson: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: First is the video.
Jay Jackson: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, did you become aware of the fact that Janet was -- Janet Arvizo was going to be doing a video?
Jay Jackson: I did.
Mr. Zonen: When did you learn about that?
Jay Jackson: Well, when Janet came back by herself, she was very emotional. And then the next day Frank started calling again, just continuously.
Mr. Zonen: Let me stop you for one second. The same Frank who was calling the first time?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, the same Frank.
Mr. Zonen: The person you mentioned as Frank Tyson?
Jay Jackson: Frank Tyson.
Mr. Zonen: And you said before he was calling continuously?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Zonen: Was he calling more continuously, less continuously, or about --
Jay Jackson: I would say now it's more continuously.
Mr. Zonen: And what does that mean in terms of actually how many phone calls he was making?
Jay Jackson: You know, I can't tell you a number of phone calls, but I can say he was calling every 15 or 20 minutes. I mean, I even told him -- I would tell him certain times, “She's not available. Call back later today”, or, “I'll have her call you”. Fifteen minutes later he calls again.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you who he was in any of these phone calls?
Jay Jackson: I don't think he did specifically. I knew he worked with Michael Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you why he was calling?
Jay Jackson: Well, he always wanted to speak --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: It would be in furtherance of.
The Court: First he has to answer the question. It was nonresponsive. I'll have the court reporter read back the question.
Mr. Zonen: The question actually is “yes” or “no”.
The Court Reporter: Did he tell you why he was calling?
Mr. Zonen: That would be “yes” or “no”.
Jay Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What did he say?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: Statement in furtherance of.
The Court: I'm going to admit the statement with the same limited purpose for the last one.
Jay Jackson: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: What did he say?
Jay Jackson: He at one point asked me, “How can I get Janet to come back up to the ranch?” And another time he asked me, he said, “We need her to sign a contract to do this video”. And he said, “We really have got to hurry on this, because it's going to air tomorrow. It's got to be in to be finalized by tomorrow. So he was really pushing that issue, and so I had a conversation with him about that.
Mr. Zonen: Had you -- prior to that conversation, had you had a conversation with Janet Arvizo about a video?
Jay Jackson: No, I had overheard her talking to Frank on the phone about it. I mean, at one point she was asking them to bring her children home.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: Reflects her state of mind.
The Court: Just a moment. The question was, “Had you -- prior to that conversation, had you had a conversation with Janet Arvizo about the video?” Answer, “No”. He then proceeded to not answer, so I'll strike that after, “No”. You may ask another question.
Mr. Zonen: But you had some knowledge about what this video was about?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I believe I did.
Mr. Zonen: And did that knowledge -- from what source was that knowledge?
Jay Jackson: I believe mostly from Frank.
Mr. Zonen: And did Janet Arvizo speak with you about that video at all?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Did you overhear any conversation between Janet Arvizo and presumably Frank on the telephone?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And did you overhear a conversation that specifically addressed the video?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir. She said she didn't want to do it.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry, she what?
Jay Jackson: She said she did not want to do it.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike; nonresponsive; and hearsay.
The Court: Stricken after, “Yes, sir”.
Mr. Zonen: All right. When you had a conversation with Frank about this video, did you ask him any questions about it?
Jay Jackson: Yes. I said -- he said he wanted to do --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Some of these questions really call for a “yes” or “no”.
Jay Jackson: Okay, sir.
Mr. Zonen: And then we can get into content thereafter.
Jay Jackson: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: I believe the question was, did you have a conversation with Frank about this video?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did Frank tell you what the video was about?
Jay Jackson: Yeah, I believe he did, sir.
Mr. Zonen: What did he tell you?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: Statement in furtherance of.
The Court: All right. I'll admit this for the limited purposes of the conspiracy. You may answer.
Jay Jackson: I'm not clear exactly. I know Frank said some things to me about the fact that we needed to have this -- they needed to do this prior to it going to the editor or something, to get it out there, and it was a rush to get it done. And that's really what I would say.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you or did you understand that this video would go on television?
Jay Jackson: I did, yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Did you talk to him about this contract that he wanted Janet Arvizo to sign?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Zonen: What did you say to him?
Jay Jackson: “What is this contract?”
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
Jay Jackson: I said, “What is this contract? What is in this contract?”
Mr. Zonen: And what did he say?
Jay Jackson: He --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: Same response.
The Court: You know, the last time you told me that, the response wasn't what you represented, so --
Mr. Zonen: Actually, I would refer the Court to Overt Acts 11, 12 and 13, and I believe it does refer to those overt acts.
The Court: Depends on what he says in his answer, doesn't it? That's the problem. Not your question, Counsel.
Mr. Zonen: Let me withdraw that last question.
The Court: No, let's have a discussion for a moment.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
The Court: I just want to give you an example here. “Did Frank tell you what the video was about? “Yes, I believe he did. “What did he tell you? “Objection; hearsay. “Statement in furtherance of conspiracy. “The Court: All right. I'll admit it for a limited purpose. “A. I'm not clear exactly”. And then he went on to say something else. If you're going to offer a statement in furtherance of the conspiracy, then you need to know what statement he's going to make when you ask the question. Do you understand what I'm saying?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
The Court: I'm not going to agree in advance to that kind of response.
Mr. Zonen: I think the best thing we need to do is to withdraw the last question and proceed to another question.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Zonen: I will do that.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a conversation -- did you ask for a copy of the contract?
Jay Jackson: I did, yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did he send you a copy of the contract?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, he did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did he agree to send you a copy of the contract?
Jay Jackson: No, he did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a conversation with Frank about payment for this video?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: What did you say to him?
Jay Jackson: Well, after I asked him to send the contract to me by e-mail, and he kind of changed the subject, I asked him, “What are you offering this family to do this?” I had seen on T.V. that they were making money on this -- this video, and I felt that they were taking advantage of this family. So I said, “What are you offering them?” He said, “Well, we're offering them protection”. And that struck --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Objection; nonresponsive.
Mr. Zonen: And I believe that statement --
Mr. Mesereau: And hearsay.
The Court: That's overruled.
Mr. Zonen: He said something to you about protection?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, he did.
Mr. Zonen: What did he tell you about offering the family protection?
Jay Jackson: He said he was offering the family protection. And I said, “Frank, the family doesn't need any protection. Who are you protecting them against?”
Mr. Zonen: Did he answer that question?
Jay Jackson: He did not. He moved on to the next point.
Mr. Zonen: At any point in time during this conversation, did he tell you who the family needed protection from?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, he did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you what kind of danger the family was in?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, he did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you who were posing threats to the family?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: And did you ask him those questions?
Jay Jackson: I did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Then you said he moved to the next subject?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Now, again, you had asked him for compensation for the family?
Jay Jackson: Well, I -- yes, I did. And he said he was going to give them a tutor. Well, we found out they didn't ever get any kind of schooling.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; hearsay; move to strike.
The Court: After “Yes, sir, I did”, I'll strike the rest of the answer.
Mr. Zonen: Did Frank offer you or Janet Arvizo or her children anything in exchange for this video?
Jay Jackson: He said he was going to offer a college education, and a house. Well, they didn't need a house. And they're in eighth grade. They didn't need a college education.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; move to strike.
The Court: The last sentence is stricken. Let me --
Mr. Zonen: What did you say to Frank in response to that offer?
Jay Jackson: I said, “That's fine, Frank. What are you offering them monetarily?” I was very suspicious of him at this point.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
The Court: That's -- that last remark is stricken. And the last answer, I'm striking the last three sentences, not the last one sentence.
Mr. Zonen: All right. He had made you an offer of a house?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And you said no?
Jay Jackson: Basically said no.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did you ask him for any monetary payment in exchange for that video?
Jay Jackson: I asked him what he was offering financially or monetarily.
Mr. Zonen: And did he answer to that specific question?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, he did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you whether or not they were going to be paid?
Jay Jackson: No, he actually said, “Are you trying to blackmail us?”
Mr. Zonen: Had you made any demands from him?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Were you personally familiar with any information that could be used for blackmail?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: What did you tell him when he said that?
Jay Jackson: “Why are you saying that? That makes no sense. It has nothing to do with what we're talking about here”.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell him that you believed they were going to be profiting from this?
Jay Jackson: I did. I said, “You're going” -- you know, “It's being blasted all over the T.V. that they're going to be doing this Take Two video, a response to the Martin Bashir 'Living with Michael Jackson'. And they're advertising that the family's going to be on there, and you want her to sign this contract, but you won't show me the contract. And you” -- he wanted me to have her --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
The Court: Okay. After “there”, where he started, “You want me to sign the contract”, I'll strike that. That's the last sentence.
Mr. Zonen: Did he ever send you a copy of the contract?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, he did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did he ever read you a copy of the contract?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, he did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever have a discussion with Janet Arvizo about the video?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I did not.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, do you know if she actually did the video with or without her children?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I believe she did.
Mr. Zonen: And was that after this discussion with Frank?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how long after this discussion with Frank?
Jay Jackson: He continued to call, and at some point Janet accepted it or moved --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
Mr. Zonen: The question was how long after, if you know?
Jay Jackson: Within a day.
Mr. Zonen: Did the phone calls from Frank continue during that --
The Court: The ruling on that is I will strike the answer as requested. Go ahead.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. During that period of time, that day that followed your conversation with Frank, did he continue to call the apartment?
Jay Jackson: Yes, he did.
Mr. Zonen: And the calls we're talking about were to your apartment on St. Andrews?
Jay Jackson: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: Was there anybody else calling other than Frank?
Jay Jackson: Not that I'm aware of.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know where the children were during this time?
Jay Jackson: I believe they were at Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: Now, you had mentioned that you did see them during the course of an interview with the Department of Child & Family Services; is that correct?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Can you tell us where that interview took place?
Jay Jackson: It took place in my apartment.
Mr. Zonen: Were you there at any time during that interview?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I wasn't.
Mr. Zonen: Did you greet any of the people as they came?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Were you there earlier at the time that Janet Arvizo and the children arrived?
Jay Jackson: About the time I was getting up to go to work, they arrived at the apartment. I was there a short period of time and went on to work.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know approximately what time that was that they arrived?
Jay Jackson: Well, I get up probably about six o'clock in the morning, so that's my guess.
Mr. Zonen: So they were just arriving at six o'clock?
Jay Jackson: That -- it might have been a little earlier, but I'm not positive on that. Depends on what I had to do at work that day.
Mr. Zonen: Now, was Janet Arvizo arriving with them or had she already been at your apartment?
Jay Jackson: No, she was arriving with them.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know when it was that she had left your apartment prior --
Jay Jackson: The night before.
Mr. Zonen: The night before?
Jay Jackson: Late at night. I don't know. Around eleven o'clock, twelve o'clock.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if she drove herself or if someone came to get her?
Jay Jackson: Someone came and got her.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know who that was?
Jay Jackson: I don't. I'm not sure. I think I went outside -- I know I went outside to help her get in the car, but I don't know who the driver was at this time. I can't put my finger on who it was.
Mr. Zonen: Were you there at the time that any of the people from the Department of Child & Family Services arrived?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Were you gone that entire day?
Jay Jackson: I was gone the entire day.
Mr. Zonen: When you got back, who was present at your apartment?
Jay Jackson: No one.
Mr. Zonen: Not even Janet Arvizo?
Jay Jackson: Janet, I believe, may have been there.
Mr. Zonen: Did Janet Arvizo remain that night?
Jay Jackson: I believe she stayed that night, and then either -- yeah, I believe she left the next morning.
Mr. Zonen: Were the kids gone already?
Jay Jackson: They were already gone.
Mr. Zonen: By the time you got home that day?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: That night, what was her mood like?
Jay Jackson: I don't really remember.
Mr. Zonen: Did Janet Arvizo say anything to you about Brazil?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, she did.
Mr. Zonen: What did she say?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know if there was a trip to Brazil in the planning?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Was Janet Arvizo enthusiastic about going to Brazil?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: State of mind.
The Court: Calls for a conclusion. Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did she say to you that she was enthusiastic about going to Brazil?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: And leading.
Mr. Zonen: How long were they gone after they left, after this meeting with the Department of Child & Family Services?
Jay Jackson: About three weeks.
Mr. Zonen: A long period of time?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, a long period of time.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know in advance they were going to be gone that long?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have conversations with Janet during that period of time?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Over the telephone?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: What was her mood like over the telephone?
Jay Jackson: Distressed. Disturbed.
Mr. Zonen: When was the next time that you saw her?
Jay Jackson: The next time that I saw her was at a nail salon.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Explain that to us.
Jay Jackson: Well, over that period of time Janet had been calling, and she was hanging up on me, and very short conversations, and very disturbed.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
The Court: It's responsive, but it calls for a narrative, so I'll sustain the objection.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: During the course of your conversations, would you describe the nature of the conversations you had with her? Without getting into the content of them, just the nature of them.
Jay Jackson: The nature of the conversations was, is --
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead.
Jay Jackson: I can tell you how she was -- appeared, how she felt. She was --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive.
Jay Jackson: I'm not sure I understand the question.
Mr. Zonen: Let me withdraw the question.
Jay Jackson: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Because I think the question might be difficult to answer.
Mr. Zonen: Did she sound concerned over the telephone?
Jay Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: Were they long conversations?
Jay Jackson: Not normally, no.
Mr. Zonen: Did she express concerns to you in the course of these conversations?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading and asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: What did she say to you that she was concerned about?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: Her state of mind.
The Court: I'll admit it for that purpose.
Mr. Zonen: What did she say to you that she was concerned about?
Jay Jackson: Well, she said that she was not being able to see her children; that they were following her around wherever she went off Neverland; that she was -- either had a chaperone or that somebody was following her. At one time when she was in a hotel --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Narrative; nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained. I'm going to instruct the jury that that statement that was admitted just now was not admitted for the truth of the matter asserted by Janet, but for her state of mind as she related to him. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if during this period of time Gavin was seeing a doctor on a regular basis?
Jay Jackson: Yes, he was.
Mr. Zonen: How often was he seeing his doctors?
Jay Jackson: I'm not clear. I think probably every month or so.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know when his appointments were around that time?
Jay Jackson: I don't really. I know that he was having them scheduled, but I wasn't sure when he had to go.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And I think you said the next time you saw her was at a beauty parlor; is that right?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Zonen: How did you happen to see her at a beauty parlor?
Jay Jackson: She called me at work and -- I hadn't talked -- I hadn't actually seen her in a long time, and she called me at work and said --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Jay Jackson: (To a juror) Bless you.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did she notify you where you -- where she was?
Jay Jackson: She called me at work.
Mr. Zonen: Did you go to that location?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Was anybody else there -- was she there at the location?
Jay Jackson: Yes, she was.
Mr. Zonen: Was anybody else at that location?
Jay Jackson: When I came in, she was sitting there by herself.
Mr. Zonen: All right. At some point -- without getting into the content, did you have a conversation with her?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Is this the first time that you'd seen her in a few weeks?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Was any -- and then I think you said somebody else came. Who came?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; misstates the evidence.
Mr. Zonen: Withdraw the question.
Mr. Zonen: Who did you see then?
Jay Jackson: I saw Vinnie and Gavin come in the back door of the nail salon.
Mr. Zonen: Is Vinnie somebody you knew prior to that day?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Were you introduced to him at that time?
Jay Jackson: I was either introduced or he introduced himself. I'm not positive. I'm not clear.
Mr. Zonen: Can you describe Vinnie to us?
Jay Jackson: He would be a white male.
Mr. Zonen: About how old?
Jay Jackson: Young. Younger.
Mr. Zonen: How old is “younger”?
Jay Jackson: 25. I don't -- that's just speculation.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you who he was, Vinnie?
Jay Jackson: I'm not sure.
Mr. Zonen: Was there a discussion with Vinnie about Janet Arvizo returning to Neverland?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: Statement in furtherance of.
The Court: All right. I'll admit it for the limited purpose in furtherance of the conspiracy.
Jay Jackson: Could you ask me the question again, please?
The Court: Go ahead, the court reporter.
The Court Reporter: Was there a discussion with Vinnie about Janet Arvizo returning to Neverland?
Jay Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And what did Vinnie say about that?
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection.
The Court: Okay. Same ruling, then.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead.
Jay Jackson: He said that -- he said, “No, you can't do that”. And I said, “Are you saying that I cannot take her out of here?” And he said, “I got to check on that”. And he walked outside and immediately got on his cell phone, followed by Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: Gavin followed him?
Jay Jackson: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: What was Gavin's behavior like at that time?
Jay Jackson: Cocky.
Mr. Zonen: Cocky?
Jay Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Explain that, please.
Jay Jackson: I don't know. He was -- it's hard to explain. He was -- just walked in. He strutted in with Vinnie. And it wasn't the sweet, loving Gavin that I knew.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
The Court: Just a moment. Overruled. The answer is -- Hold on just a moment, here, if you would, please. Go ahead. Thank you.
Mr. Zonen: May I proceed?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. You described Gavin's response. Was Gavin behaving differently than he had been prior to -- well, prior to -- the early part of February when they went to Miami?
Jay Jackson: Yes, he was.
Mr. Zonen: In what way was he behaving differently at this point?
Jay Jackson: Again, he was acting very cocky. He -- kind of rude, actually.
Mr. Zonen: Did he greet you at all when he saw you?
Jay Jackson: I don't think he wanted to see me. I don't think that he -- he was very surprised when he saw me there. And he may have greeted me, but he was certainly not a loving -- it was almost like, “What are you doing here?”
Mr. Zonen: Your relationship with him prior to Miami, how would you describe that relationship?
Jay Jackson: Father-like.
Mr. Zonen: You had a good relationship with him?
Jay Jackson: Very good relationship.
Mr. Zonen: Now, we were talking about Vinnie and his comments. He said that he had to go out and call somebody. Did he call somebody?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, he did.
Mr. Zonen: Did he continue to have a conversation with you while he was on the phone with that person?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir. I asked him -- I asked him, you know, “Is there a problem here?” And he said, “Oh, no, there's no problem. I'm working on that right now”.
Mr. Zonen: Did he say anything about where Janet Arvizo or Gavin would be going?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Jay Jackson: Did he say where she was going to go?
The Court: Read the question back.
Mr. Zonen: Let me redo that question, if I can.
Jay Jackson: Please.
Mr. Zonen: Did he say anything to you about where he wanted Janet Arvizo or Gavin to go?
Jay Jackson: He didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection.
Mr. Zonen: Did you say anything to --
The Court: Just a moment. The objection was overruled. The answer was, “He didn't”. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: Was there a discussion involving Vinnie about where everybody would be going?
Jay Jackson: It wasn't Vinnie. It was -- Gavin came in after that and said something to me.
Mr. Zonen: All right. In Vinnie's presence?
Jay Jackson: No, Vinnie was still outside.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Where finally did Janet go?
Jay Jackson: Janet left with me.
Mr. Zonen: And where did Gavin go?
Jay Jackson: Gavin left with Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: To your understanding, where?
Jay Jackson: Back to Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: The other two children, were they there?
Jay Jackson: They were still at Neverland, no, sir.
Mr. Zonen: And did you go home with Janet?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And “home” is the St. Andrews residence?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, it was.
Mr. Zonen: What was Janet Arvizo's mood like when you were back at the house at St. Andrews?
Jay Jackson: She was distressed. She was saying there was a problem.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you make an effort at some time to find out --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
The Court: Sustained. I'll strike the last sentence of what she said.
Mr. Zonen: Did you make an effort with Janet Arvizo to get the children back from Neverland?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: What did you do?
Jay Jackson: Well, at one point I called her father, and said, “I want to go to Neverland and get these children out of there”. And then at -- and he -- well, I don't believe that he was --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: Tending to explain their actions.
The Court: The question was what did he do. So I will overrule the objection and strike the last sentence.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Ultimately was there a decision made to make a phone call by somebody in the family to Neverland?
Jay Jackson: Yes, Janet called someone. Either Frank or Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And what did she represent to them?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: Explaining the conduct.
The Court: Explaining what conduct?
Mr. Zonen: Hers.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Were the children returned to either your house or some other location? When did you --
Jay Jackson: I'm drawing a blank. I'm not sure I understand what's going back and forth here.
Mr. Zonen: When was the next time you saw the children?
Jay Jackson: The next time I saw them was the next night at her -- Janet's parents' house.
Mr. Zonen: Were you present at the time any phone calls were made to Neverland by either Janet or her parents?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Who brought the children to her parents' house?
Jay Jackson: I don't -- I do not know, because we waited for them to arrive before we went to her parents' house.
Mr. Zonen: When you got there, were they still there, the people from Neverland?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, they were not.
Mr. Zonen: Whoever had brought them there had left by that time?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Zonen: Describe Gavin's behavior at the time that you got there.
Jay Jackson: Gavin didn't want to see me. He stayed back in the back room. There was some crying coming from the back room.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; hearsay; move to strike.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: Who was crying in the back room?
Jay Jackson: I believe it was Davellin.
Mr. Zonen: Did you talk with Gavin at all?
Jay Jackson: No, I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Was he friendly to you?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Did he talk with you at all during that day?
Jay Jackson: No. No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Was there any discussion about returning to Neverland?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Did any of the kids ask to be returned to Neverland?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading and asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead.
Jay Jackson: I'm sorry?
The Court: Court reporter.
The Court Reporter: Did any of the kids ask to be returned to Neverland?
Jay Jackson: The only thing I remember is they said that Michael -- I mean Gavin couldn't see me, because if he did, he couldn't return to Neverland to see Michael.
Mr. Zonen: Gavin said that?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, he did.
Mr. Zonen: How would you contrast Gavin's behavior at that time as against his behavior prior to the Miami trip?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Improper opinion; vague.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead.
Jay Jackson: Night and day. It appeared to me he'd been brainwashed in some way.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
Mr. Zonen: Just tell us what his behavior was.
Jay Jackson: He was vague, he was angry.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
The Court: Just a moment. Just a moment.
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
The Court: The last response is stricken. The jury's admonished to disregard it. Ask him another question.
Mr. Zonen: Just tell us what his behavior was like at this time.
Jay Jackson: Angry.
Mr. Zonen: In what way?
Jay Jackson: He was just mean. He was yelling. Are we talking about the night that he was at --
Mr. Zonen: That night and even beyond.
Jay Jackson: Even beyond. He became mean. He was using curse words.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
Jay Jackson: He had never done before.
The Court: Just a moment.
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Vague and nonresponsive.
The Court: I'm going to strike the last sentence again. The problem here is that you're required to listen to the question and just answer it. And every answer you give, you add something to it, which causes counsel to object, and me to rule, which is causing a great disturbance in your testimony. If you want to keep doing it, you can. But you can't imagine how it sounds to everybody else. So I'm going to admonish you to pay attention to what the question is, and then just answer the question. Nothing further. All right?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Was he saying things or using speech different from the type of speech he used prior to the Miami trip?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: In what way?
Jay Jackson: He was using curse words.
Mr. Zonen: He had not used curse words before in the house?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Was this in the presence of his grandmother?
Jay Jackson: I don't remember if it was that night. But he did over the next few days period of time.
Mr. Zonen: Did his behavior in time return to what you considered to be normal, what it was prior to the Miami trip?
Jay Jackson: Over several months, yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Did you and Janet Arvizo put the boys into some kind of tutoring?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, we did.
Mr. Zonen: What tutoring program was that?
Jay Jackson: It's called JEI Learning Center. We immediately put them in after they got back from Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: Was that a private school?
Jay Jackson: No, it's not a private school. It's just to assist children who -- who need additional assistance getting their level up in a certain area.
Mr. Zonen: What was the purpose for doing so, putting them into JEI?
Jay Jackson: Because they had been out of school for almost two months and we wanted to bring their skills back up to the level they should have been.
Mr. Zonen: And did they attend JEI tutoring?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Did the boys resume their activities with military scouting?
Jay Jackson: With the Sea Cadets, yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: When did that resume?
Jay Jackson: Almost immediately.
Mr. Zonen: Are they still active in military scouting?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, they are.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; relevance.
The Court: Overruled. The answer was, “Yes”.
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, they are.
Mr. Zonen: And that involves attendance at military camps how frequently?
Jay Jackson: They go every week, about every Sunday. And then they have field exercises that they attend probably every month or two months. They're over the weekends.
Mr. Zonen: Are all three children living with you today?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, they are.
Mr. Zonen: Would you describe Gavin's behavior today?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; relevance.
The Court: Asked and answered, I believe. Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Is he still involved in scouting today?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; relevance.
Mr. Zonen: Could we approach sidebar?
The Court: The --
Mr. Zonen: Is that a “Yes”?
The Court: No. I'm trying to -- I'll overrule the objection. I think that was asked and answered. But rather than waste time looking, go ahead.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir. They're still involved with it, with that.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. I have no further questions.
The Court: All right. We'll take our break two minutes early. Give me time to recover. (Laughter.)
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Mr. Mesereau?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. Thank you, Your Honor.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning.
Jay Jackson: Good morning, Mr. Mesereau.
Mr. Mesereau: You indicated that you saw behavioral changes in Gavin from when you knew him initially to when he left Neverland for the last time, correct?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know anything about his school history?
Jay Jackson: I didn't. I don't think I knew a lot about it, no, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know anything about his disciplinary record in various schools with various teachers?
Jay Jackson: I know that when he was with me that he had some problems at John Burroughs.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know anything about his history before?
Jay Jackson: Not that I'm aware of, no, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, you indicated in response to the prosecutor's questions that you knew about a Miami trip that Janet and the children took, correct?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was approximately when, to your knowledge?
Jay Jackson: Early February.
Mr. Mesereau: I believe you said that while Janet and the children were on that trip to Miami you had these discussions with some people who purported to be representatives of a British tabloid, correct?
Jay Jackson: That would have been prior to her leaving.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jay Jackson: Although, sir, they did call me back after she left, but I was not talking to them.
Mr. Mesereau: But they contacted you on a number of occasions, you say, right?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, at one point you indicated that you spoke to Frank Tyson and wanted to know what the family was going to get out of the rebuttal video, right?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And you actually mentioned at one point to Tyson that, “You're making millions out of this. What is this family going to get?” Right?
Jay Jackson: In -- in essence, I did say that.
Mr. Mesereau: And I believe you said that Mr. Tyson offered a house and a college education; is that correct?
Jay Jackson: First he offered protection. Then he said he was going to offer a tutor. Then he was going to offer a house and a college education.
Mr. Mesereau: And you, in effect, said to Mr. Tyson, “That's not enough”, right?
Jay Jackson: That would be incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: First you said, “You guys are making millions and this family's not getting anything”, right? Right?
Jay Jackson: Are you asking me the question now to answer?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jay Jackson: Okay. I said basically that, “I understand that they're making four to five million dollars on this documentary. In my perception, that you should compensate this family for helping out in this video”.
Mr. Mesereau: And at the end of that conversation, you in effect communicated to Frank a house is not enough, right?
Jay Jackson: That was not the way it came across, no, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you accept the house?
Jay Jackson: I still don't have it, no. I don't see the house yet.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you still looking for it?
Jay Jackson: I'm not even looking for it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And are you telling the jury that there was no response to your comment that, in effect, somebody's making four to five million dollars and the family's not getting any money?
Jay Jackson: His response was, “Well, how about” -- “I'm going to protect the family. We're going to protect the family”.
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Jay Jackson: “We're going to give them a house. We're going to give them a college education”. And I said, “Frank, but what are you going to do financially or monetarily for this family?”
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Jay Jackson: They had already been taken advantage of in the first documentary and received nothing.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you never really got a response to that question except discussion about a house, correct?
Jay Jackson: Again, sir, what I've said, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You told the jury that it was your understanding that Janet and the family went to Miami to do a press conference, right?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember your first interview with any sheriff's department representative in this case?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember it was approximately on November 25th, 2003?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: It was with a sheriff named Zelis, correct?
Jay Jackson: Paul Zelis.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember you told him that it was your understanding that the purpose of the Miami trip was to do a rebuttal video?
Jay Jackson: I did write that, yes. I mean, I did see that, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last read that transcript?
Jay Jackson: I've read the transcripts over the last several days.
Mr. Mesereau: You told Mr. Zelis they were going to film some kind of rebuttal for Michael, and when she returned she said no rebuttal had ever been done, right?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said that Janet believed Michael Jackson is innocent, right?
Jay Jackson: At what point, sir?
Mr. Mesereau: At that point.
Mr. Zonen: I'm not sure what point that is. I'll object as vague.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: When -- excuse me. You told Sheriff Zelis --
Jay Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- that when Janet and the children went to Miami - okay? --
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: -- your understanding was they were going to film some kind of rebuttal for Michael Jackson --
Jay Jackson: Or press conference, right.
Mr. Mesereau: -- Right? No, you said rebuttal.
Jay Jackson: I said rebuttal, but it's the same thing. It was going to be a press conference that they were going to do to rebut what was being done -- what had been -- what was going to be said in the “Living with Michael Jackson”.
Mr. Mesereau: You said they were going to film a rebuttal, right?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said at that time Janet believed Michael Jackson was innocent, correct?
Jay Jackson: That is correct, sir.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as to vague. What time?
Mr. Mesereau: The time of the Miami trip, right?
Jay Jackson: Before they left for Miami, yes, sir, they did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And you told Mr. Zelis that the family was upset that they never did a rebuttal in Miami, right?
Jay Jackson: I don't recall that. You would have to show it to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever say anything to that effect?
Jay Jackson: I don't remember that, sir. You could show it to me and refresh my memory.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall the attitude of the family when they returned from Miami?
Jay Jackson: I didn't see the family when they immediately returned from Miami.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you next see them?
Jay Jackson: I saw them when the family came home about a week later from Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that any rebuttal was done in Florida?
Jay Jackson: It was my understanding nothing was done in Florida.
Mr. Mesereau: They just sort of flew there for a day and flew back?
Jay Jackson: They flew there, were there several days, I guess, and then came back, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you indicated to Mr. Zelis that you had seen both television documentaries, the Bashir documentary and a rebuttal documentary, correct?
Jay Jackson: No, I don't believe I said that. I told him that I had seen the “Living with Michael Jackson”.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling Mr. Zelis you saw both of them?
Jay Jackson: I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you the transcript?
Jay Jackson: Sure. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What page, Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: 9 of 37.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you.
Jay Jackson: Okay. Where are we at? Okay. Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at the transcript?
Jay Jackson: I saw that one sentence, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about what you told Mr. Zelis?
Jay Jackson: Not overly, no. No, sir, it doesn't. I saw the sentence that said I said I saw both. That's all I saw.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall that that's what you told them?
Jay Jackson: I'm really -- really unsure.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see both of them?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you told Mr. Zelis that because Janet and the children were taped in the middle of the night, that they couldn't get it in time to put it on the show, correct?
Jay Jackson: That is correct. And I may have heard that from T.V. I'm not sure where I heard that because they were supposed to be on that show according to the previous advertisements for the Take 2 video.
Mr. Mesereau: And they never were on it?
Jay Jackson: And they were not on it.
Mr. Mesereau: But you're still waiting for a house?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You said you thought Bashir was slandering Michael Jackson, correct?
Jay Jackson: At that time, I think so, yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You've said you were really upset about that, right?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: You had not met Michael Jackson then?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I had not.
Mr. Mesereau: And as you said, you've never met him?
Jay Jackson: Never met him.
Mr. Mesereau: Until you see him today, correct?
Jay Jackson: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet Chris Tucker?
Jay Jackson: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you meet him?
Jay Jackson: When we went to Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he ever contact you?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, he contacted Janet.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet him the first time on the Neverland property?
Jay Jackson: The first time I saw him was on the bus prior to arriving -- leaving for Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that Janet and the family went to Miami on his plane?
Jay Jackson: That was my understanding.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. To your knowledge, were Janet and the children in contact with Chris Tucker on a regular basis during this time period?
Jay Jackson: While they were in Miami, I have no idea.
Mr. Mesereau: How about before Miami?
Jay Jackson: Prior to Miami, yes, they had a very good friendship.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know when Janet last talked with Chris Tucker?
Jay Jackson: I do not specifically.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, I believe you said the British reporters talked to you before the Bashir documentary aired in the United States?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, was that after the Bashir documentary aired in England?
Jay Jackson: I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how many discussions do you think you had with them?
Jay Jackson: I cannot tell you that for sure. Depends on if you're taking it from the beginning all the way through the raid of Neverland. Three or four.
Mr. Mesereau: Three or four discussions with these same British reporters?
Jay Jackson: And then that's speculation. It may have been five or six.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Five or six discussions with the same British reporter, right?
Jay Jackson: One gentleman. David Gardner.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And who does David Gardner work for, if you know?
Jay Jackson: I think it's The Daily Mail or something. I believe that's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, in these five or so discussions, have you ever discussed Mr. Jackson?
Jay Jackson: I'm sure his name was brought up.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever given them information about Mr. Jackson?
Jay Jackson: No, I wouldn't have known information about Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you could have gotten something from Janet, couldn't you?
Jay Jackson: Other than that he was a nice guy.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, are you saying you've had five conversations with this fellow, but never gave them any information and never talked about getting money?
Jay Jackson: There was conversation about money.
Mr. Mesereau: You went back and forth with him a little bit on money, did you not?
Jay Jackson: That would be true.
Mr. Mesereau: And never could reach an agreement, correct?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: When was the last time you talked to Gardner?
Jay Jackson: Gardner called me right after the Neverland raid, and wanted to see if he could get an interview with the family again. And I just said no. He said, “Well, I have it” -- he said, you know, “I haven't given your phone number to any other organizations yet”, as if he was implying that he would if I didn't work with him.
Mr. Mesereau: Who else have you been contacted -- excuse me. What other media representative or alleged media representative has contacted you about this case?
Jay Jackson: Roger Friedman has called my office. People Magazine has called my office. People Magazine showed up at the gates of my job. There's been a number of them.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you talked to any representative of the media besides Mr. Gardner?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you mentioned that Frank talked about a contract, right?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you wanted to see the contract, correct?
Jay Jackson: Absolutely.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did Janet ever sign a contract?
Jay Jackson: I have no idea.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever talk to her about it?
Jay Jackson: I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: To this day you've never asked Janet --
Jay Jackson: I did not, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you sign any agreement?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: You learned at some point she and the children had filmed a rebuttal video, true?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you learn that?
Jay Jackson: I'm not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have any idea at all?
Jay Jackson: I really don't. I'm unsure when I learned that.
Mr. Mesereau: You indicated in response to the prosecutor's questions that the CPS interview --
Jay Jackson: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: -- the Child Protective Services interview was the morning after Janet and the children filmed footage for a rebuttal video, right?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you saw Janet that morning, correct?
Jay Jackson: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it be reasonable to say that when you saw her that morning, you learned she and the kids had filmed a rebuttal video?
Jay Jackson: I don't know that we -- I don't think we talked about it. In fact, I'm pretty sure we did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you told the prosecutor you knew what time approximately they left the night before, right?
Jay Jackson: I knew what time Janet left, which was late at night, yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were with her when she left, true?
Jay Jackson: And you know what? Maybe I did know that she was heading to do that, but I'm not really clear right now.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jay Jackson: I'm not trying to be evasive. I just -- I'm not clear.
Mr. Mesereau: Yet, when you think back to Janet leaving that evening --
Jay Jackson: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: -- you don't remember if she told you why she was leaving at that time?
Jay Jackson: She may have. Like I say, I'm really unclear.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And then you saw her come back the next morning?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You must have asked her where she'd been, true?
Jay Jackson: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she spend the next evening at your home, to your knowledge?
Jay Jackson: She did.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember seeing her that evening?
Jay Jackson: I -- this is -- I worked very late that night. I was in Command and General Staff College and I had a paper or something I had to do. I stayed late at night. I got home fairly much -- I believe I went to bed. The next morning I got up, and I guess she left.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But to this day you've never asked her, “Did they have you sign a document before you and the kids filmed the rebuttal video?”
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you've had a number of discussions with representatives of the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department, right?
Jay Jackson: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've had a number of discussions with representatives of the District Attorney's Office, right?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've met with Mr. Zonen, the government prosecutor, on a number of occasions, right?
Jay Jackson: That would be correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And in those discussions, you have spoken about your desire to see any contract before Janet or the kids signed anything, right?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever discussed your interviews with any sheriff, representative of the sheriff's department, any prosecutor or representative of the prosecutor's agency with Janet?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: You indicated that at some point, you were present for an interview conducted by Brad Miller; is that correct?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you indicated that -- actually, you indicated a couple of times to the jury that it was your understanding that Brad Miller worked for Mr. Jackson --
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: -- correct? Did you ever learn in that interview that Brad Miller worked for an attorney named Mark Geragos?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. At this point, Your Honor, we'd like to play the tape of that interview, which is in evidence.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sanger: It's Exhibit 5000.
Mr. Mesereau: Exhibit 5000.
The Bailiff: Are you playing it off of your computer?
Mr. Sanger: Playing it off the DVD, I think.
The Bailiff: “Input 4”, Your Honor.
The Court: Excuse me?
The Bailiff: “Input 4”.
The Court: Does it go through the PC?
The Bailiff: No, it's going through the DVD. Did you push the proper --
Mr. Sanger: I certainly hope so. There's no video, Your Honor.
Ms. Yu: It's an audio.
Mr. Sanger: It's only audio, yes.
The Court: What's the length of the audio? What's the length of the DVD?
Mr. Sanger: I think it's about 20 minutes.
Mr. Zonen: It's about 20, 25 minutes playing the entirety.
Mr. Sanger: Yes. May we proceed?
The Court: Yes.
The Bailiff: “Input 1”. We're going to play it through the PC, Judge.
Mr. Sanger: Just take a second while it loads the program.
The Bailiff: Do you have it in the right format for --
Mr. Sanger: I hope so.
The Bailiff: Did you push the right -- is it coming out of your computer?
Mr. Sanger: Best-laid plans, Your Honor. Okay. It's coming out of the computer, and we got to make it come out of the sound system. I think this will work well enough, it's pretty clear, if we just try it this way. Let's see how this works. (Whereupon, a portion of an audio CD, Defendant's Exhibit 5000, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, excuse me. Could we stop for one second? The bailiff just told me what we forgot to push over here, and I think we can make it run through the machine -- I mean, through the loudspeaker, I say boldly. We'll find out. Which number do we turn this to?
The Bailiff: (Indicating).
Mr. Sanger: “2”?
The Bailiff: You have it all hooked up to “Laptop 2”, right?
Mr. Sanger: “Laptop 2”.
The Bailiff: And the master audio switch is in your computer?
Mr. Sanger: The what?
The Bailiff: The master audio is in your computer?
Mr. Sanger: That's on “PC”. That's on “2”. So we have it on “2”, and that's not still not working.
The Bailiff: You're not hooked up to the master audio.
The Court: Why don't you just do it the way you were. We could hear it okay.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. All right. We'll try it again. I'm going to resume, Your Honor. (Whereupon, a portion of an audio CD, Defendant's Exhibit No. 5000, was played to its conclusion for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Major Jackson, you heard the date that Mr. Miller articulated as February 16th, 2003, correct?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you note that at the beginning of the interview and at the end of the interview, Mr. Miller said he was a private investigator working for Attorney Mark Geragos, correct?
Jay Jackson: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said Attorney Mark Geragos was an attorney for Mr. Jackson, correct?
Jay Jackson: You're right.
Mr. Mesereau: Does that refresh your recollection that Mr. Miller told you he worked for Mr. Geragos at that interview?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, it doesn't.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't recall hearing that at all?
Jay Jackson: I don't. And it wouldn't have mattered to me or meant anything to me if I had heard.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm not asking you what it meant to you. I'm just asking you --
Mr. Zonen: That is argumentative, and I'll object.
The Court: Overruled. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: You sat there for the entirety of that interview, did you not?
Jay Jackson: I was in the apartment, yes, I was.
Mr. Mesereau: You sat there for the entirety of the interview, right?
Jay Jackson: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember testifying to a grand jury in Santa Barbara County in this case?
Jay Jackson: I do.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember being asked, “The interview that Brad Miller did, was that an interview that you were able to watch in its entirety? Were you there?” “A. Yes, sir, I was. I sat on the couch, yes, sir”. Do you remember answering?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you now changing that?
Jay Jackson: It's not an issue of changing. I mean, I was in the apartment, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell the Santa Barbara jury that you listened to that interview in its entirety?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Misstatement of evidence. The statement was “watch”.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall telling that to the Santa Barbara Grand Jury?
Mr. Zonen: Which page, please?
Mr. Mesereau: 889.
Jay Jackson: Sir, you'd have to show me.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach the witness, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Jay Jackson: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that page of transcript?
Jay Jackson: I have.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about what you told the Santa Barbara Grand Jury under oath on that issue?
Jay Jackson: Correct. Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell them that you watched it in its entirety?
Jay Jackson: I didn't see that. You have to show me again.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me? Oh. May I?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir. I see where I said I sat on the couch, yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Let me just go through this again. Have you had a chance to read that question?
Jay Jackson: I have.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about what you told the Santa Barbara Grand Jury?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell the Santa Barbara Grand Jury in response to the question, “The interview that Brad Miller did, was that an interview that you were able to watch in its entirety? Were you there? “A. Yes, sir, I was. I sat on the couch, yes, sir”.
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, but I was not sitting on the couch the entire time. It was a play on words. I said it, but you know what? I wasn't sitting there the entire time. I was throughout the apartment. I sat at my desk in the bedroom on many occasions.
Mr. Mesereau: So what you told the grand jury is incorrect?
Jay Jackson: It was not that I was trying to lie.
Mr. Mesereau: I didn't ask you that. Is what you told the Santa Barbara Grand Jury under oath incorrect?
Jay Jackson: It would be incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you were also asked by the prosecutor if you saw any prompting by Mr. Miller regarding what to say or what answers to give. Do you remember that?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: You said you didn't know of any prompting. You didn't know of any effort to tell Janet or the kids what answers to give, correct?
Jay Jackson: I agree, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you're aware that the rebuttal video was filmed February 20th?
Jay Jackson: I don't remember the specific date.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you do remember the Miller interview being on the 16th, correct?
Jay Jackson: Because you told me, yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And I believe you said that Janet -- well, actually, let me rephrase that. Obviously, Janet and the children are at your apartment for that interview, right?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Were they there the night before?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, they were. I believe they were.
Mr. Mesereau: Were they there on the evening of the 16th, to your knowledge?
Jay Jackson: The night that they did the interview?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, they were.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if they were there at your place the next day?
Jay Jackson: Seems to me they left the next day.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know where they went?
Jay Jackson: I believe they went back to Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, did you know on the 20th that there was going to be an interview with Child Protective Services at your apartment?
Jay Jackson: I believe I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you learn that?
Jay Jackson: I'm not sure how I figured that out, other than maybe hearing Janet saying it on the telephone to Frank.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, Janet returns home that morning and sees you, correct?
Jay Jackson: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You're on the way out to work, right?
Jay Jackson: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall her telling you, “We're going to be interviewed by Child Protective Services”?
Jay Jackson: No, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know why the interview with Child Protective Services was at your apartment?
Jay Jackson: No, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: At the time of the interview with Child Protective Services, were Janet and the children living with you?
Jay Jackson: They were living with me, between there and Soto.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And approximately how much of the time were they living with you?
Jay Jackson: Three, four days. It could have been as many as five days.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And the rest of the days would be either at Soto or --
Jay Jackson: Or their grandmother's house.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Or they could be at Neverland, correct?
Jay Jackson: Well, no, they actually didn't go to Neverland, other than during this period right here, that I'm aware of.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, you said words to the effect that the kids were hardly in school at one point, right?
Jay Jackson: During the period that they were at Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were they in school during the period they were spending part of their time at your place?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Were they in school on February 16th, 2003?
Jay Jackson: I don't believe so, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: They were living at your place at least the night of the 15th and the 16th, correct?
Jay Jackson: I would say so.
Mr. Mesereau: But they weren't going to school, correct?
Jay Jackson: That would be correct.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, were they going to school earlier that month?
Jay Jackson: Prior to leaving for Miami, they were going to school.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So at some point they're going back and forth to Neverland, right?
Jay Jackson: They came back once or twice.
Mr. Mesereau: They were living at your place when they come back, correct?
Jay Jackson: Okay. Right.
Mr. Mesereau: Sometimes they're living at their grandparents' place, right?
Jay Jackson: I don't think you're saying this properly.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Tell me -- correct me, if you will.
Jay Jackson: They left for Neverland -- they left for Miami.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jay Jackson: Basically they came back one time. And then when -- in March something, the whole family came back. So during that period of time, Mr. Jackson -- according to what Frank was saying and what Janet was saying is they were going to have a tutor. There would not be a reason for me to put them back into school for one day when in fact they may be -- it looks like they were leaving to go back to Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So on the 16th and the 15th when they were staying at your place, you assumed they were being tutored?
Jay Jackson: I believe that they were.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ask Janet --
Jay Jackson: Or that they were going to be, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ask Janet if they were being tutored?
Jay Jackson: I don't think I did ask Janet.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point they were back at your place within a few days, because the rebuttal video was on the 20th, right?
Jay Jackson: The rebuttal video, and then they showed up that night -- or, excuse me, the next morning, and then they were gone by the time I got home from work that night.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And are you asking Janet at this point in time, “Janet, are the kids being tutored?”
Jay Jackson: No, I was not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever ask Frank to pay for tutoring?
Jay Jackson: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never spoke to Mr. Jackson, so you never asked him, right?
Jay Jackson: That would be correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you had already been to Neverland, so you knew there was an amusement park and a zoo and a lot of things that appealed to kids, right?
Jay Jackson: Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: And you must have assumed that when the kids went to Neverland, they were having a fun time, right? Given the amusement park and the way Neverland's portrayed, right?
Jay Jackson: That would be an assumption.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you personally never tried to find out if they were being tutored at all at Neverland, true?
Jay Jackson: That would be true.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you mentioned at some point there was an effort to get Gavin out of his local school because he was being pressured to join a gang, true?
Jay Jackson: Correct. Janet dealt with that.
Mr. Mesereau: And when was that change of -- excuse me. When did that change of schools occur?
Jay Jackson: Probably around the time that I moved into the St. Andrews apartment.
Mr. Mesereau: And when was that?
Jay Jackson: In November of '02. Let's see. Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: So in November of '02, Gavin's pulled out of a school because he is in some way being pressured to join gangs, correct?
Jay Jackson: Both boys.
Mr. Mesereau: Both boys in November of 2002 are taken out of their school because of gang influence, right?
Jay Jackson: Actually, that would be -- let me see, I got to get my timeline, because I met Janet in '02. It would have been November -- November of '02. I guess that's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. That's November of '02 --
Jay Jackson: Yeah, that would have been correct.
Mr. Mesereau: -- before the trip to Miami in '03, right?
Jay Jackson: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And when do you remember the trip to Miami being?
Jay Jackson: February of '03.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And approximately when did you tell the jury you suddenly noticed that Gavin was not acting like a nice kid?
Jay Jackson: When I -- when he showed up at the beauty parlor or what they call the nail salon.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And that's approximately when?
Jay Jackson: Sometime in early March.
Mr. Mesereau: Where was the beauty parlor or nail salon?
Jay Jackson: On Wilshire Boulevard.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that near where you work?
Jay Jackson: Within about five minutes.
Mr. Mesereau: You work at Wilshire and Federal, correct?
Jay Jackson: I did, yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Federal is the cross street to Wilshire, true?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And there is a federal building at Wilshire and Federal, correct?
Jay Jackson: That's incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: Is there a federal building nearby?
Jay Jackson: No, sir. There's one nearby.
Mr. Mesereau: Where is it?
Jay Jackson: The next couple blocks down.
Mr. Mesereau: It's a large federal building, true?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And it's a building that has the FBI office in it, true?
Jay Jackson: A federal building. FBI sounds good.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever been in that building?
Jay Jackson: No, I haven't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But it's two blocks from where you work?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jay Jackson: Past the V.A.
Mr. Mesereau: And Wilshire and Federal is not far from the 405 freeway, correct?
Jay Jackson: That would be true.
Mr. Mesereau: How long -- do you still work there?
Jay Jackson: I don't work in that location, no, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: How long did you work in that location?
Jay Jackson: Three years.
Mr. Mesereau: And what were the years we're talking about?
Jay Jackson: October of '01 through August of '04.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So during the entire period that you testified about this morning, you're working at that location, right?
Jay Jackson: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you work there five days a week?
Jay Jackson: No, probably about 17 days straight without a day off.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where was the salon again? A few blocks away from where you worked?
Jay Jackson: Probably about five or six blocks down Wilshire Boulevard.
Mr. Mesereau: And where on Wilshire, if you remember?
Jay Jackson: By the McDonald's. I'm not sure. There was an Italian restaurant right there. I don't have a street crossing.
Mr. Mesereau: So would it be accurate to say that the salon is a couple of blocks from your military base, right?
Jay Jackson: Five or six blocks.
Mr. Mesereau: And it's a few blocks away from the federal building, right?
Jay Jackson: That would be correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Which you agree houses the FBI and other federal agents, correct?
Jay Jackson: About three miles away, four miles away.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. To your knowledge, how long was Janet in the beauty salon on that particular occasion?
Jay Jackson: I'm really not sure. I would speculate an hour or two hours.
Mr. Mesereau: And you went and visited the salon yourself, true?
Jay Jackson: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you drive there?
Jay Jackson: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Parked your car, right?
Jay Jackson: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Walked into the salon, correct?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And saw Janet when you walked in?
Jay Jackson: Janet was sitting there, right.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Janet getting a treatment of sorts?
Jay Jackson: Nothing that I saw at that point.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if she already had some attention there?
Jay Jackson: You know what? I really don't know. I really don't know. I assume she did based on the fact that she was there, but I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: You spoke to Janet, right?
Jay Jackson: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: You then saw Gavin and Vinnie come in, right?
Jay Jackson: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You spoke to Gavin, right?
Jay Jackson: I spoke to -- yeah, I spoke to Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, was that salon in the Brentwood area of Los Angeles?
Jay Jackson: I believe that's what they call the Brentwood area.
Mr. Mesereau: Was this near a cross street called Barrington?
Jay Jackson: I would think that Barrington is close, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, that's a very -- Barrington and Wilshire is a very commercial-type area, isn't it? You have store after store after store?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, that's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And Wilshire, for anyone who doesn't know, is a main thoroughfare through Los Angeles, true?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And if you keep going west for a few miles, you end up in Santa Monica, right?
Jay Jackson: That would be correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's Santa Monica at the ocean, right?
Jay Jackson: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you think Janet was at the salon for a couple hours?
Jay Jackson: You know what? That's speculation. I really don't know how long she was there. She called me from the salon.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long were you at the salon?
Jay Jackson: Probably 25 minutes at the most.
Mr. Mesereau: And then did you go back to work?
Jay Jackson: No. I went home.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you go?
Jay Jackson: I went back home.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Anyone go back home with you?
Jay Jackson: Janet.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know approximately when that was?
Jay Jackson: Six o'clock in the evening. I'm guessing.
Mr. Mesereau: And did Janet spend the evening at your apartment?
Jay Jackson: She did.
Mr. Mesereau: What did she do the next day, to your knowledge?
Jay Jackson: The next day I believe she had a Family Court appearance.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you go to Family Court with her?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I went to work.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if anybody went to Family Court with her that day?
Jay Jackson: I understand Vinnie did, but I don't know that to be a fact.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, Family Court, to your knowledge, was in downtown Los Angeles, correct?
Jay Jackson: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: And it goes without saying that in Family Court, you have bailiffs and police and state employees, true?
Jay Jackson: Sir -- yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know how long Janet was in Family Court that day?
Jay Jackson: Sir, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did she talk to you that day?
Bailiff Cortez: Sir, I'm sorry, I need you to speak into the microphone.
Jay Jackson: Okay. Yes, sir, she got home before I did, I believe.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she stay at your home that evening, to your knowledge?
Jay Jackson: She did, yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And you saw her that evening?
Jay Jackson: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately what time did you see her after she returned from Family Court?
Jay Jackson: Yes, I got home a little early because we called the Department of Child & Family Services.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. And the next day, was Janet with you?
Jay Jackson: I was at work.
Mr. Mesereau: Where was Janet the next day, to your knowledge?
Jay Jackson: I'm not sure where she was. I assume she was at home.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall Janet ever going back to Neverland after that day?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know if she did?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I don't think she did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know if the children ever left Neverland after that date?
Jay Jackson: After the day that they were brought to their grandmother's house?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jay Jackson: No, they did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were they brought to their grandmother's house before or after you saw Janet at the salon, if you know?
Jay Jackson: No, it was after.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So, you meet Janet at the salon. She goes home with you, right?
Jay Jackson: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: The next day she goes to court in downtown Los Angeles, correct?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: She comes back that night and is with you?
Jay Jackson: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when do you think the children are returned to the grandparents?
Jay Jackson: I believe the next day.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know how they got to the grandparents?
Jay Jackson: I don't know. Somebody from Jackson's entourage gave them a ride, I believe.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Is that something you just heard from somewhere?
Jay Jackson: I believe so. I didn't see it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. And to your knowledge, there never was any trip to Brazil, right?
Jay Jackson: To my knowledge, no, but there was a claim that they were going to be taken to Brazil.
Mr. Mesereau: I understand your point, but nobody ever went to Brazil, true?
Jay Jackson: That would be true.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. How many times do you think you talked to Frank Tyson?
Jay Jackson: I spoke to Frank Tyson two times.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did you speak -- excuse me. Where were you when you spoke to Frank Tyson?
Jay Jackson: In my apartment.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And Frank would call your apartment?
Jay Jackson: Continuously.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you know where Frank was when he called your apartment continuously?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did he -- did you speak to Frank in person or on the phone when you were talking about the family not getting anything financial out of the rebuttal video?
Jay Jackson: Right, I've never met Frank, so it was on the telephone.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when that discussion took place?
Jay Jackson: After Janet returned by herself from Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: And if you know, approximately when is that?
Jay Jackson: Mid February. Probably within a week after she left.
Mr. Mesereau: So was this discussion before or after you meet her at the salon in Brentwood?
Jay Jackson: With Frank?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jay Jackson: Prior to.
Mr. Mesereau: Prior to?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. And you indicated that Frank asked you if you were trying to blackmail them, correct?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you certainly said, “We're not”, right?
Jay Jackson: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You just thought the family should be properly compensated, right?
Jay Jackson: That would be correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever threaten that the family won't be available to be filmed unless they're paid properly?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. How did you determine that somebody was going to make five million dollars on that rebuttal video?
Jay Jackson: I believe it was on television. They were talking about it, that the family was going to be on there and that Jackson was making so many millions of dollars. I'm not sure of the specific dollar amount. It was a large sum of money.
Mr. Mesereau: You did tell one of the sheriffs that you had learned about that on the Internet at one time, correct?
Jay Jackson: That may have been. That may have been the way I heard it. I'm not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection just to show you a transcript of your police interview?
Jay Jackson: Please.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Jay Jackson: Yeah. Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that page of transcript?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir, I have.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about where you said you learned that somebody was going to make millions of dollars on that documentary?
Jay Jackson: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You said the Internet, correct?
Jay Jackson: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, were you following issues related to Mr. Jackson and the Bashir documentary on the Internet?
Jay Jackson: Not that I'm aware of. I did later, but I don't think I did at the time. I may have just seen it on one of the Internet sites, CNN or MS-NBC.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And in that interview with Paul Zelis, you said that Frank said, “We're planning on giving them a house. We're planning on giving the boys a college education”, right?
Jay Jackson: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told Mr. Zelis you were concerned that these things were not going to be in any kind of a contract, right?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you asked Frank to include this stuff in a contract, right?
Jay Jackson: I don't know that -- no, I didn't ask him to put it in a contract. I said I would like to see the contract. Then it went from protection, to tutor, to house, to all of these things that I wasn't asking him about.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you were asking him about a contract because you wanted the family to be properly compensated in a contract, correct?
Jay Jackson: I asked him if I could see the contract. I asked him if he could e-mail it to me.
Mr. Mesereau: And he didn't respond?
Jay Jackson: He never did. He didn't respond.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Did you discuss with Janet at any time, “We want to see if we're going to be properly compensated in a contract”?
Jay Jackson: I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Never even discussed the subject with her?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss that subject with any of the children at any time?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell Janet or the children, “Don't let them film you. We haven't had an appropriate contract signed”?
Jay Jackson: Oh, no, sir. The phone was passed to Janet. She ended up talking to them on the phone, him on the telephone, and they ended up going and doing it. There was no contract that I'm aware of --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jay Jackson: -- at all.
Mr. Mesereau: While you were talking to Frank about proper family compensation in a contract, were you also talking to these reporters for the British tabloids?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Did it ever cross your mind that if you or Janet entered into some deal with a tabloid, it might destroy your ability to get compensated in the rebuttal video?
Jay Jackson: No, sir, that was never an issue.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if Janet ever spoke to Mr. Jackson about all of these media sources contacting her to make a deal?
Jay Jackson: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. You heard her voice on the Brad Miller interview tape --
Jay Jackson: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: -- a few minutes ago. You heard her saying that she was essentially under siege by media people, correct?
Jay Jackson: Her mother was, actually.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, she said she was and her parents were, correct?
Jay Jackson: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: She talked about Celebrity Justice and Extra and other shows, true?
Jay Jackson: They may have been showing up.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jay Jackson: I just heard them calling.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did she attempt to discuss any of this with Mr. Jackson?
Jay Jackson: I don't know what she talked to with Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, she says on that tape that she and the family are being besieged by media, right?
Jay Jackson: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: And that is February 16th, 2003, correct?
Jay Jackson: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: And within certainly the next couple of days, you're in a discussion with Frank about proper compensation and a contract, true?
Jay Jackson: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: That doesn't happen, to your knowledge, right?
Jay Jackson: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: They're filmed on the 20th, right?
Jay Jackson: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: The next day they're at your home to be interviewed by Child Protective Services, right?
Jay Jackson: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, in the middle of all this turmoil, there now is a claim that molestation began sometime on the 20th. Is that your knowledge?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Speculative. Lack of foundation. No personal knowledge.
The Court: Foundation; sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you discussed this case with Janet at all?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: How long have you lived with Janet?
Jay Jackson: Since -- for sure, since March of '03.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you discussed this case with Gavin at all?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you discussed this case with Davellin at all?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And have you discussed this case with Star at all?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever seen the rebuttal videotape that appeared on television?
Jay Jackson: That appeared? What do you mean?
Mr. Mesereau: The one that was on television. You saw that, didn't you?
Jay Jackson: The Take 2?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Jay Jackson: I did see it, but I really don't remember a whole lot of it.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that a Maury Povich --
Jay Jackson: That's right. That was the Maury Povich one.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, has Janet ever seen the Bashir documentary?
Jay Jackson: No, not to my knowledge.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, has Janet ever seen the Maury Povich rebuttal?
Jay Jackson: Not to my knowledge.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you ever discussed with Janet why she and the children don't appear in the rebuttal T.V. show with Mr. Povich?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Never even broached the subject with her?
Jay Jackson: No, sir. No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: How long have the children lived with you?
Jay Jackson: Same period.
Mr. Mesereau: Same period you just gave for Janet?
Jay Jackson: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, at some point you moved to West Los Angeles, right?
Jay Jackson: That would be correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And when was that?
Jay Jackson: In November of '03.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long did you live there?
Jay Jackson: Till about July of '04.
Mr. Mesereau: And just to -- excuse me. Let me rephrase that question. Do you know how long Janet kept an address on Soto Street in East Los Angeles?
Jay Jackson: I believe that she did away with the address once the people took her stuff away from her apartment.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm asking you how long she lived --
Jay Jackson: That would have been in March of '03, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: March? Okay. Have you ever been present in any meeting that Janet has ever had with an attorney?
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And --
Jay Jackson: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many meetings where Janet met with a lawyer have you been present at?
Jay Jackson: The only one that I can remember is the one with Bill Dickerman.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know when that was?
Jay Jackson: Sometime in April. '03.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that April of '03?
Jay Jackson: It was either -- yeah, it was late March or April of '03, I believe.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did that meeting take place, if you know?
Jay Jackson: At his office.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you drive Janet to the office?
Jay Jackson: I believe I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Was someone named Jamie Masada present?
Jay Jackson: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know who Jamie Masada is?
Jay Jackson: I know who Jamie is, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know him personally?
Jay Jackson: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last talk to him?
Jay Jackson: It's been quite a while. I really don't have a specific date.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times have you met with him?
Jay Jackson: I have met Jamie and have had a couple of social occasions at my house. Maybe four or five total.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Is that the house in West Los Angeles?
Jay Jackson: That would be the house in West Los Angeles.
Mr. Mesereau: So that would be between November of 2003 and July of 2004?
Jay Jackson: It would have been from the time that I met Janet in July of '02 through present day.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: So the last time you saw --
The Court: Counsel? Are you ready to quit?
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Tomorrow morning at 8:30. Remember the admonitions I gave you.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 11:30 a.m.
