Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Thursday, April 14, 2005 8:30 a.m.
The Court: Good morning.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor.
The Court: Ready to proceed?
Mr. Zonen: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: Go ahead.
Message: JANET JACKSON Having been previously sworn, resumed the stand and testified further as follows:
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION Continued BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Miss Arvizo, good morning.
Janet Arvizo: Good morning. How are you?
Mr. Zonen: When we left off yesterday, we had been talking about the interview with Brad Miller that took place at your then boyfriend's house, Major Jackson; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
The Bailiff: Is your microphone on?
Mr. Zonen: Yes. Just need to be closer, okay.
Mr. Zonen: When was it that you returned back to Neverland after that interview?
Janet Arvizo: The next day.
Mr. Zonen: And did you return back with your children?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have an understanding about that with Frank?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: When was that conversation? When did that conversation take place?
Janet Arvizo: Every day, many conversations. Even on that day, the next day.
Mr. Zonen: Was there a conversation with Frank after the interview with Brad Miller?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Even during.
Mr. Zonen: Even during?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did he call during that?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, he did.
Mr. Zonen: And did you speak with him during that?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Tell me about the understanding that you had with Frank about returning to Neverland.
Janet Arvizo: That the Germans had been fired, and -- and me and the kids were coming back, and we didn't have to do the video at that point.
Mr. Zonen: And that's when you went back to Neverland; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: That's when I went back.
Mr. Zonen: Now, there was going to be a DCFS interview; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And that was going to be on the 20th?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us about the conversation that you had with Frank about the rebuttal video.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: And specifically in time after you had learned that there was going to be an interview with your children with DCFS.
Janet Arvizo: First, he had told me, no, that he wasn't going to bring the two kids back. It evolved and that made me very stressed. And then he says the only way they'll bring back the kids if I do the video. And then it evolved into that I wouldn't have to leave out of -- leave the country.
Mr. Zonen: You were already having conversations with Frank about leaving the country?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, yeah, that had been since --
Mr. Zonen: And had the location of where you were supposed to go already been resolved?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, Brazil.
Mr. Zonen: Brazil? All right. You then went back to Neverland, you've already described. And then you then turned around and went back to Los Angeles; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Now, the rebuttal video took place where?
Janet Arvizo: At Hamid's house.
Mr. Zonen: Can you tell us when it took place?
Janet Arvizo: The 19th until the 20th, like past 11-something at night, all the way into the a.m. hours.
Mr. Zonen: The 19th of February being a Wednesday, I think we've already established.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: So it was late at night?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Into the morning hours?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Where did it take place?
Janet Arvizo: In Hamid's house.
Mr. Zonen: And Hamid is who?
Janet Arvizo: His personal videographer.
Mr. Zonen: Had you met Hamid before that day?
Janet Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know Hamid's last name?
Janet Arvizo: Moslehi.
Mr. Zonen: Moslehi?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: How did you get to Hamid's house?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie drove me.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know where Hamid lives?
Janet Arvizo: And that's the first time that I met Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: That's the first time you met Vinnie?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know where Hamid lives, or at least lived at that time?
Janet Arvizo: No. I just know we drove a long way, and I met -- they said something about San Fernando Valley, but I really don't know where he lives.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how long it took to drive from Jackson's apartment to Hamid's residence?
Janet Arvizo: No, I couldn't tell you.
Mr. Zonen: Could you describe Hamid's residence to us?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah, I can.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead and do so.
Janet Arvizo: He has a bedroom. Rest room. The dining area, but he had -- to me, I assumed it was a dining area, but he had, like, some kind of table there, and then this open area and the kitchen. But everything's, like, in -- open.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, were your kids there?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Were they there when you arrived?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how your kids got there?
Janet Arvizo: My understanding is that Hamid took them there himself.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And you say somebody named “Vinnie” took you; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know Vinnie's last name?
Janet Arvizo: Amen.
Mr. Zonen: A-m-e-n?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: All right. You had never met Vinnie before?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did he introduce himself to you in some fashion?
Janet Arvizo: Well, actually, Frank did the introduction before.
Mr. Zonen: Frank did the introduction in person?
Janet Arvizo: No, no, no. No. Frank, over the phone, told me about Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Janet Arvizo: And then Vinnie had shown up.
Mr. Zonen: So you knew in advance somebody named “Vinnie” was coming?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did Frank tell you who Vinnie was?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What did he say about Vinnie?
Janet Arvizo: That he's one of Michael's people.
Mr. Zonen: Did he arrive with anybody else or by himself?
Janet Arvizo: By himself.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know approximately what time it was?
Janet Arvizo: It was about -- I don't know. My best estimate, probably about 11:00.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know why this video was done at Hamid's house in the San Fernando Valley?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah. I didn't want to go back to Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: Did you say that to somebody?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I said it to Frank.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, at the video at Hamid's house, tell us who else was present.
Janet Arvizo: Oh. In Hamid's house, Brad Miller's there, on top of the film crew, Hamid, Vinnie, and Frank continuously on the telephone.
Mr. Zonen: All right. So Miller was there, Brad Miller?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was he already there when you arrived?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Hamid, I assume, was already there?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. My kids.
Mr. Zonen: Vinnie came with you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Your three kids?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Anybody else that you can recall?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Who else?
Janet Arvizo: Christian. The one who's asking the scripted questions.
Mr. Zonen: Christian was there?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Were either of the Germans there?
Janet Arvizo: No. No Germans.
Mr. Zonen: But there were scripted questions?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Were these questions that you had already seen?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And who had shown them to you?
Janet Arvizo: Dieter.
Mr. Zonen: And when was that?
Janet Arvizo: In Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: Was that prior to your leaving Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Prior to leaving with Jesus. And it continued afterwards with Frank on the phone.
Mr. Zonen: So Frank went over the questions as well?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What essentially was it that they wanted you to say?
Janet Arvizo: Basically he's a -- you know, a father figure, everything in an answer to this Bashir thing.
Mr. Zonen: All right. But what specifically was it that they asked you to say?
Mr. Mesereau: I'm going to object to the word “they” as vague.
The Court: Just a moment, please. Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry, I didn't hear.
The Court: The word “they”.
Mr. Zonen: Oh, yes, that's fine.
Mr. Zonen: Let's start with Frank. Tell us what exactly it was that Frank wanted you to say in this video.
Janet Arvizo: What I got in trouble for or what I ended up actually saying?
Mr. Zonen: No, no. Tell us, in advance of doing this video, what was it that Frank wanted you to say on this video?
Janet Arvizo: That he's a wonderful father.
Mr. Zonen: Did he use the word “father”?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Basically, in summary, that he's a wonderful father.
Mr. Zonen: Now, with regard -- in regard to his own children or in regards to your children?
Janet Arvizo: To my children.
Mr. Zonen: Did you feel that that statement was accurate?
Janet Arvizo: I was confused. I was confused, and I was sad at that moment.
Mr. Zonen: What was your confusion?
Janet Arvizo: Well, because I -- I -- as things evolved, I ended up finding out who were the bad guys.
Mr. Zonen: I'm asking you, now that you had this conversation with Frank --
Janet Arvizo: I was confused with him, because I still believed his initial meeting in Miami. But I was still -- and I was sad and confused as to why everything was happening. I didn't know why.
Mr. Zonen: Did you, in fact, say on the video that you thought he was a father figure to your children?
Janet Arvizo: I think so. Many times. In different ways.
Mr. Zonen: Did you mean it when you said it?
Janet Arvizo: I was confused. I was sad. So basically I was acting.
Mr. Zonen: What would you have been willing to say on his behalf at that time if you had not been given a script?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; calls for speculation.
Mr. Zonen: Relevant for her state of mind.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Zonen: Do you understand the question?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Nice things.
Mr. Zonen: Nice things like what?
Janet Arvizo: Nice things of everything; that I believed him in the initial meeting that he had told me in Miami.
Mr. Zonen: Up to this point, had you had any reason to be concerned about Mr. Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: No. I was just sad and confused.
Mr. Zonen: The incident that you saw on the plane returning --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- him licking Gavin --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- was that something that you were thinking about at the time of this video?
Janet Arvizo: No, I --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
Janet Arvizo: I thought it was --
The Court: Sustained. Just a moment. The answer is in, but I'll sustain the objection. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: What was your thought process with regards to that licking incident?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; foundation.
The Court: Based on her answer to the question that I sustained the objection to, I'll sustain this objection.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any concerns about Mr. Jackson at all during the course of that video?
Janet Arvizo: I said I was confused and I was sad, and that's it. And the prior incident on the airplane, that had already been out of my mind.
Mr. Zonen: Did they talk to you about how you would dress for this video, or makeup, or anything like that?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you do all that on your own?
Janet Arvizo: No. Right there, inside the -- when I had arrived there, Vinnie had told me to go ahead and put some more on, and -- but Frank -- and that was per Frank's instructions to Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: Hold on a second.
Janet Arvizo: Because Vinnie had given him like an update to how I looked.
Mr. Zonen: Now, did somebody talk to you in advance of your going to Hamid's house --
Janet Arvizo: Yes, yes, at Jay's house.
Mr. Zonen: You have to let me finish the question.
Janet Arvizo: Oh, okay.
Mr. Zonen: Did somebody talk to you in advance of your arrival at Hamid's as to how you should dress, how you should wear your hair, or how you should wear makeup?
Janet Arvizo: To put on makeup, because usually I don't put on makeup.
Mr. Zonen: And who was it who talked to you about that?
Janet Arvizo: Frank.
Mr. Zonen: And that was over the telephone?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any further discussion with anybody at Hamid's house about makeup or hair or dress?
Janet Arvizo: Well, Vinnie had given Frank an update as to how I was. And then Vinnie, per Frank's instructions, told me to put some more on.
Mr. Zonen: Some more what?
Janet Arvizo: Makeup.
Mr. Zonen: How about clothing, who made the decision as to what clothing you would wear?
Janet Arvizo: Nobody.
Mr. Zonen: You made that decision on your own?
Janet Arvizo: I just -- yeah, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know what time that video started?
Janet Arvizo: I think it was about -- I think it was about 3:00 a.m. I'm not sure.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know what time it was that you arrived at Hamid's house?
Janet Arvizo: No. It was already the a.m. hours.
Mr. Zonen: What time did you -- what time was your meeting with the Department of Child & Family Services?
Janet Arvizo: It was scheduled at 9:00, and -- but it started around 10:00.
Mr. Zonen: And you're talking about the next morning?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah. And I hadn't slept all night.
Mr. Zonen: All right. The -- the video then ended at approximately what time?
Janet Arvizo: I wouldn't be able to tell you. I wouldn't be -- but it was definitely -- it was already morning, a.m. hours.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any sleep at all that night?
Janet Arvizo: Zero. Zero sleep.
Mr. Zonen: Before the video, did you have a conversation with anybody over the telephone?
Janet Arvizo: Before the video?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: With whom?
Janet Arvizo: With Vicky Poderevski.
Mr. Zonen: How -- tell me how that came about.
Janet Arvizo: Brad Miller dialed the phone, his private investigator. And he handed it to me, and this woman was on the phone.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you in advance that he was dialing that number?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you in advance who he was calling?
Janet Arvizo: No. And that was scary.
Mr. Zonen: When he -- so the first time you knew you were getting on the phone with somebody is when he handed you the phone?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah, he dialed the number and handed it to me.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you who the person was?
Janet Arvizo: No. Zero.
Mr. Zonen: Or why he wanted you to talk to this person?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: And the person at the other end of the line identified herself as who?
Janet Arvizo: Vicky Poderevski, an attorney for Michael Jackson and Geragos.
Mr. Zonen: And what did she tell you?
Janet Arvizo: I came to find out per the investigation now, but this is what they told me then.
Mr. Zonen: I'm asking you what you understood at the time --
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: -- not what you've learned since.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: All right? At the time of this conversation, what did Miss Poderevski tell you?
Janet Arvizo: That she was an attorney for Michael Jackson and Geragos.
Mr. Zonen: And what did she recommend to you?
Janet Arvizo: She recommended that she be present at the CPS meeting.
Mr. Zonen: And what did you say?
Janet Arvizo: “No”.
Mr. Zonen: Did she talk to you about who would pay her bill at all?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Was there any discussion about payment?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Why did you say no, if she was offering her services?
Janet Arvizo: Because I -- in the past, I had spoken to, not these same exact people, but a different department -- same department but different group of people, and different city. And they were nice people.
Mr. Zonen: And that was in --
Janet Arvizo: Actually, it was a person. Nice person.
Mr. Zonen: When was that?
Janet Arvizo: That was when David had been arrested. They had sent someone from that department. But totally different city. Totally different building.
Mr. Zonen: All right. But your experience with them was what at the time?
Janet Arvizo: It was positive. And you know what I liked about her, is that she was concerned about my kids, not me.
Mr. Zonen: You're talking about the prior experience?
Janet Arvizo: The prior one.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you have concerns about the meeting the next morning?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: What were your concerns?
Janet Arvizo: That my children were going to be taken away from me.
Mr. Zonen: Did somebody tell you that?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Who?
Janet Arvizo: Vicky.
Mr. Zonen: Did you, in fact, have somebody present with you at that time?
Janet Arvizo: At the CPS meeting?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: Not by my choice.
Mr. Zonen: Now, who is it that took you to the meeting with the Department of Child & Family Services?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie. Vinnie took my children and me back to Jay's.
Mr. Zonen: Was anybody else present during that time?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: I mean in the car coming back.
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Just Vinnie, you and your children?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah, and then another car following us.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Janet Arvizo: There was always --
Mr. Zonen: Do you know approximately what time in the morning it was you arrived back at Jay's house?
Janet Arvizo: I think it was -- it was about one hour prior to Jay going to work.
Mr. Zonen: So Jay was still there when you arrived?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Had you told Jay in advance that there was going to be that meeting at his house?
Janet Arvizo: I think so.
Mr. Zonen: Did Jay stay for that meeting?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us, at the point that everybody arrived at the apartment, how many people did you have at the apartment?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie, me, the children, and then that -- those people that were following us.
Mr. Zonen: Excuse me.
Janet Arvizo: But they --
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry, do that one more time for me. I didn't hear. Who was there?
Janet Arvizo: Me, Vinnie and the children, and those people that were following us.
Mr. Zonen: You, Vinnie, the children, the people in the other car?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was it just one other car?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, did you see who those people were --
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: -- or who they were?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Who actually went into the apartment with you?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: Was Azja there at that time?
Janet Arvizo: In -- in the meeting? Are we talking about the meeting now?
Mr. Zonen: We're at Jay's house now.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: We've left Hamid's house, all right?
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: And I think you said you arrived about an hour before Jay went to work.
Janet Arvizo: Yes. And my children --
Mr. Zonen: Can you tell us what time that was, if you can recall?
Janet Arvizo: I don't know. The best I can recall is maybe 5:00 or 6:00 a.m. That's the best -- and that's just an estimate.
Mr. Zonen: The people who were in the other car, did they go into the apartment with you?
Janet Arvizo: No. No.
Mr. Zonen: At what time did the people from the Department of Child Care Services arrive, Child Family Services?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. The meeting was scheduled for about 9:00, but it didn't start until about 10:00. So I don't know. It's within that time bracket, because -- can I -- can I continue?
Mr. Zonen: Let me -- I'll go ahead and ask.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us who was there at the time that the workers from the Department of Child Family Services arrived.
Janet Arvizo: Before the CPS people arrived?
Mr. Zonen: Yes, before. Just before.
Janet Arvizo: Okay. I know him as CPS, DCFS, different names. But they're all the same people to me, okay? Asaf had arrived before those three ladies did, before Azja did.
Mr. Zonen: And Azja?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Azja arrived just about the same time as the ladies did.
Mr. Zonen: Was Vinnie still there?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie, no, no.
Mr. Zonen: Vinnie had left?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: So he wasn't in the apartment?
Janet Arvizo: No. But he was within the area, now it's my understanding.
Mr. Zonen: But you didn't see him in the apartment?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Zonen: Was Asaf in the apartment?
Janet Arvizo: Asaf was inside the apartment way before the CPS people were.
Mr. Zonen: Did Azja arrive?
Janet Arvizo: It's almost as if Vinnie went out, Asaf came in, like that.
Mr. Zonen: All right. How did Azja happen to be there?
Janet Arvizo: Per Frank's instruction, it was in -- per my -- my suggestion -- his suggestion, my suggestion, it was kind of like a compromise.
Mr. Zonen: Well, did you call Azja?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: The “Azja” we're referring to is Chris Tucker's girlfriend; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And your relationship with her up to that point you would describe as how?
Janet Arvizo: Real nice.
Mr. Zonen: Why did you want her to be there?
Janet Arvizo: Well, it was -- like I said, it was kind of like a compromise going back and forth with Frank, until finally, I had to pick someone that he approved of, and he approved of Azja.
Mr. Zonen: Why were you picking anybody, picking somebody to do what?
Janet Arvizo: Because Frank wanted an independent person there, an independent person, because that's per how they use their choreography, they pull in unsuspecting people until they stumble upon it.
Mr. Zonen: Why did you want Azja there?
Janet Arvizo: I trusted her.
Mr. Zonen: Why did you want anybody there?
Janet Arvizo: I was okay meeting with the CPS people by myself, but it was per Frank's instructions, and then it ended up being a back-and-forth compromise that he approved of her.
Mr. Zonen: Did Frank tell you who he wanted to be present during this meeting?
Janet Arvizo: No. He suggested Chris's girlfriend, and then it went back and forth, and I -- I -- go ahead.
Mr. Zonen: “Chris's girlfriend” being Azja?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. And so I figured it would be okay. So there was a period of compromising who.
Mr. Zonen: Is Asaf somebody you knew prior to that day?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: That was the first time you met him?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know Asaf's last name?
Janet Arvizo: No. I never learned it.
Mr. Zonen: Did you see him again after that day?
Janet Arvizo: Asaf?
Mr. Zonen: Asaf.
Janet Arvizo: I -- I think -- I think I did see him briefly. I don't remember clearly, but I think it was a period between -- when I was in the Calabasas area. And that's briefly. I can't remember that. That's my best -- I think that was the only other time.
Mr. Zonen: Madam Clerk, is Exhibit No. 24 in evidence?
The Clerk: It hasn't been identified yet.
Janet Arvizo: (To a juror) Bless you.
The Clerk: It hasn't been identified yet.
Mr. Zonen: May I approach the witness, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I'd like to show you two exhibits at this time, if I may. Exhibit No. 19 already in evidence, do you know who that is?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie Amen.
Mr. Zonen: Exhibit No. 24 for identification?
Janet Arvizo: Asaf.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Is this photograph an accurate photograph of Asaf?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, yes, it is.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Move to introduce --
Janet Arvizo: It's burned in here, their faces.
Mr. Zonen: Move to admit Exhibit No. 24.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Zonen: May I publish No. 24, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Miss Arvizo, if you could face the screen and tell us if that's, in fact, Asaf.
Janet Arvizo: That's Asaf.
Mr. Zonen: Did Asaf tell you who he was?
Janet Arvizo: Michael's security.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a conversation with Asaf at some point that morning before the arrival of the workers from the Department of Child & Family Services?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And did he give you any particular instructions?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. To play -- he was verifying that I was going to play the vid -- the DVD. He told me that if I put Michael in a bad light, that they know where my parents live. He wanted to hear the allegations read in front of him. Let me see. What else? He was verifying that I would do -- carry out Carrie -- Vicky's instructions and Frank's instructions.
Mr. Zonen: All right. You mentioned a DVD, play a DVD.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What was that?
Janet Arvizo: That's of Michael and Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: Had you ever seen that DVD before?
Janet Arvizo: No. Prior to the Miami, never.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know that that DVD had actually been prepared?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you see it for the first time?
Janet Arvizo: For the first time in Miami.
Mr. Zonen: You saw it in Miami.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: So they showed it to you there?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What was the circumstance of their showing you that DVD in Miami?
Janet Arvizo: I don't know. I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: Well --
Janet Arvizo: Evvy -- Evvy had given it to Gary, and Gary had given it to Gavin while we were still at Chris's house.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And did they give any instructions at that time as to what to do with it?
Janet Arvizo: No, none.
Mr. Zonen: Now, that DVD then went to Miami?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And you saw it for the first time in Miami?
Janet Arvizo: I saw it, like, complete in Miami, but a little bit at Chris's house.
Mr. Zonen: Explain to us the content of that DVD.
Janet Arvizo: It's of my son when he's barely being ill, and Michael and Star.
Mr. Zonen: The two of them walking together?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Is Star in it on occasion?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Star's in there for a little bit.
Mr. Zonen: Now, did you keep that DVD from Miami?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And did you have it in your possession?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, on the occasion of the visit from the Department of Child & Family Services, did you play that DVD to them?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Whose idea was it to do that?
Janet Arvizo: Asaf, but he was verifying with Frank and Vicky had gave me instructions to do. But mostly Frank.
Mr. Zonen: But you had that DVD in your possession?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did. And this is as best as I can remember.
Mr. Zonen: That's okay. Did somebody give you a tape-recorder during this interview?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Who was that?
Janet Arvizo: Asaf. But I didn't know that he had a tape-recorder until after.
Mr. Zonen: Well, tell me what the circumstances were with the tape-recorder. What happened with that?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. When Asaf found out he was being kicked out, that's when he told me, “Can I talk to you for a second?” And he pulled me into Jay's bedroom. And then he gave me -- he gave me instructions, but it was already on, it was already working. What I was trying to find out was that I didn't have to push anything because it was already working. He gave me instructions about to, “Take her here. Talk to her here. Leave it here”. And you could also hear in there that that period of week was very stressful for me, because Karen had also -- they -- the CPS knew that I was --
Mr. Zonen: Let's back up a little bit now.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Before Asaf talked to you about a tape-recorder --
Janet Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: -- did you have a discussion with anybody among the Department of Child and Family Care Services about having other people present during this interview?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, and I was referring that to Azja.
Mr. Zonen: Who did you ask to have present in the interview?
Janet Arvizo: Azja.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ask to have Asaf present?
Janet Arvizo: No. Only Azja. I trust Azja.
Mr. Zonen: Did Asaf ask you to ask them to allow him to remain?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ask them to allow Asaf to remain?
Janet Arvizo: No. I was -- hopefully I was -- I was hoping that the CPS would make that call so Asaf wouldn't hear it come from my mouth. So I was referring to Azja, but I had to, per Asaf's order.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know that there was a tape-recorder in the room at the time --
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Hold on. Hold on. Listen to the question. Did you know that there was a tape-recorder in the room prior to your discussion with the social workers about who would be present during the interview?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, did somebody tell you from the social workers who would be allowed to be present during the interview?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And what was that resolution? Who was allowed to be present?
Janet Arvizo: Just me and the children.
Mr. Zonen: Not Azja?
Janet Arvizo: Not Azja.
Mr. Zonen: Not Asaf?
Janet Arvizo: Not Asaf and not the baby.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Tell us when it was that Asaf then had a conversation with you about a tape-recorder.
Janet Arvizo: When -- after that.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, what exactly did Asaf say to you? What did he do?
Janet Arvizo: “Can I talk to you for a second?” And told me that -- told me that it was working, that I didn't have to push anything. Told me to talk -- to, you know, in the room, “Leave it here. Talk to her here. Take it here”. And you could also hear in there when I was -- I got very scared when I thought the DVD of Gavin and Michael were missing. Because that was one of the orders that I had to do.
Mr. Zonen: Did he then hand you a tape-recorder?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, he did, after he said, “Can I talk to you for a second?”
Mr. Zonen: Now, what did you do with this tape-recorder?
Janet Arvizo: He put it on the desk. And I just went ahead like -- that was -- I just played along with him, “Yeah, yeah, sure, uh-huh”. You know, basically that kind of behavior.
Mr. Zonen: What was your intent --
Janet Arvizo: But I didn't say those words. My behavior -- that was my behavior.
Mr. Zonen: At the time that he gave you the tape-recorder, what did he ask you to do with it, in terms of where to keep it, where to place it?
Janet Arvizo: He placed it on the desk area.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: Just to, “Leave it here. Talk to her here. Take her here”. Because Karen had said she was going to talk to each one of us individually, so he assumed that it was going to be in the bedroom. And he also -- you know.
Mr. Zonen: “Karen” being one of the social workers?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, Karen was the supervisor.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know her last name?
Janet Arvizo: Karen Walker.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any concerns about the tape-recorder?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What were your concerns?
Janet Arvizo: That these people are going to be illegally taped.
Mr. Zonen: Did you think there was an illegality problem?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, because she had just said, “This is confidential”.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Janet Arvizo: And I wasn't aware at that time that he had the tape-recorder.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, did everybody finally leave the room, in terms of Azja and Asaf?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. Asaf didn't leave until I had came out of the rest room. I thought he had already -- I thought he had already gone. So you could even hear me on the tape-recorder, because I was going to tell the lady there -- I figured he had already gone. So I -- I started telling her, because the lady -- one of the women had pulled me -- well, not pulled me, was talking to me also in the area where the tape-recorder was. And so I'm -- I was going to start to tell her, and then there's Asaf right there. And I just -- you can hear my -- my voice.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did Asaf tell you anything about any other tape-recorders?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What did he say?
Janet Arvizo: After I turned it off, came out of the rest room, and then he was still -- Jay's apartment, it was very long. It was like an apartment house, but it's only one bedroom. So he was in a distance where a wall was covering, but he can hear.
Mr. Zonen: Who's “he”?
Janet Arvizo: Asaf. Asaf can hear. And so that's when he called me over. And at this point he told me that there's another one in the room. So I didn't know whether it was a tape-recorder or a monitoring device. I didn't know what it was. But there was certainly another one in the room.
Mr. Zonen: When the interview finally began, who was present in the interview room?
Janet Arvizo: When -- the three ladies, me and my children.
Mr. Zonen: And were all of you interviewed together?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: At any time did they separate you from the children or each of the children from each other?
Janet Arvizo: No. No. I carried out Vicky's instructions.
Mr. Zonen: And what were those instructions?
Janet Arvizo: Not to let the children be separated, interviewed separately. Ask what are my rights, what are the children's rights. Have the allegations read before -- before the meeting. Just, you know, different things like that.
Mr. Zonen: Did you play or record the entire conversation?
Janet Arvizo: Me?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: No, I turned it off.
Mr. Zonen: You turned it off when?
Janet Arvizo: I turned it off when I thought he had already gone, and he was there.
Mr. Zonen: Why did you turn it off?
Janet Arvizo: Because it's illegal to tape people without them knowing.
Mr. Zonen: At some subsequent time, did you have an opportunity to listen to a recording that you believed to be that recording?
Janet Arvizo: There?
Mr. Zonen: Let me try that one more time.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: At some later time --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- sometime after the meeting --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- did you have an opportunity to listen to a tape-recording?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. At the grand jury, the D.A.'s Office, right before the grand jury, I was like -- it was like hours before, hours. And they only had two minutes -- about two minutes' worth of that DCFS tape. And I told them, you know, “There's more. There's more to this tape”. So he -- so the D.A.'s Office had -- had me explain to them how much more there was. And I said, “Because that's not all of it. There's still more”.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Janet Arvizo: I was monitored continuously by those people.
Mr. Zonen: The first tape that you listened to at the time of the grand jury was a tape from what?
Janet Arvizo: From a -- I don't know whether it's a media report, area, I don't know what you properly call the show. Abrams Report.
Mr. Zonen: Television?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Something that had played on television?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And after having listened to that, what was your view of whether or not that was the entirety of the conversation?
Janet Arvizo: That was not its entirety.
Mr. Zonen: Since then, have you had an opportunity to listen to another tape?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What is your opinion about that other tape?
Janet Arvizo: This one is accurate.
Mr. Zonen: Up until the point where you turned it off?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Well, through the time, the entirety of the tape?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. And he turned it on when the CPS people arrived. Not prior.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Can you make out the different voices in this tape?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I can.
Mr. Zonen: And how many different voices are there in this tape?
Janet Arvizo: The three ladies from Child Protective Services. Azja. And my three children. You kind of can hear the baby a little bit. That's their -- he's a toddler. And you can hear Asaf. You can hear him say he's Michael's security.
Mr. Zonen: And during the course of that time, did you play the video that they had asked you to play?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did. And I got scared, because I thought -- I thought it went missing. I thought I misplaced it, so I got really scared because that was one of the instructions.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, did you say positive things about Michael Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah, I had to. At this point now, it's a -- now it's a have-to. Because everything's evolving. And he had said that -- to put Michael -- don't say anything that would put Michael in a bad light, because they knew where my parents lived, he knew where my parents lived. And this is prior to the tape-recording.
Mr. Zonen: Miss Arvizo, did you know why Child Protective Services were at your house, those social workers?
Janet Arvizo: No, I did not know why. And they didn't even want to tell me on the phone when I was trying to talk to them.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time after they arrived, did they explain why they were there?
Janet Arvizo: They didn't explain it until I was alone with the children.
Mr. Zonen: Did Miss Poderevski, in her conversation with you, tell you why, her opinion, they were there?
Janet Arvizo: No. She just told me to -- to basically drive it home for him being a good father.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. We're going to play it at this time. Your Honor, we have marked for identification a CD, a tape-recording, No. 810, 8-1-0, and we would like to play that at this time.
The Court: Do you have a transcript of that?
Mr. Zonen: We do. And we'll -- I have it here, but we'll have a copy for the Court before the session is over today, along with the one from yesterday that I promised you.
The Court: How long is the tape?
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
The Court: How long is it?
Mr. Auchincloss: 19 minutes.
Mr. Zonen: 19 minutes, Your Honor. May we begin?
The Court: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: And this is all the best that I can remember. (Whereupon, a portion of a CD, Plaintiff's Exhibit No. 810, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Zonen: We're pausing it a moment.
Mr. Zonen: Miss Arvizo, what is the music that we're hearing right now?
Janet Arvizo: That is from the DVD, the background music to the DVD that Michael and Gavin were in, and a little bit of Star was in there.
Mr. Zonen: This goes for approximately what, six minutes?
Janet Arvizo: I think so.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Let's go ahead. (Whereupon, a portion of a CD, Plaintiff's Exhibit No. 810, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Zonen: We're stopping the tape momentarily.
Mr. Zonen: Miss Arvizo, can you tell us what that sound was that we were hearing just prior to stopping this tape; do you know?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't know. I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have a recollection of that sound from the time of this event itself?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't. But it sounds like tape. But I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: Was that taped to you at any time?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Were you able to see the tape-recorder prior to him giving it to you, before he gave it to you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Where was it?
Janet Arvizo: The best I can remember, he took something out of his pocket, so I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember what he was wearing at the time?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: We're talking about Asaf, right?
Janet Arvizo: Blue shirt.
Mr. Zonen: He had a shirt?
Janet Arvizo: Blue shirt, long-sleeved, collar.
Mr. Zonen: Did he have a jacket on at all?
Janet Arvizo: No, just a blue shirt.
Mr. Zonen: And prior to him taking it out, did you see that tape-recorder?
Janet Arvizo: No. So I don't know if he -- you know, where.
Mr. Zonen: There was a single man's voice, a deep voice, that came on just before we turned off the tape.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Who was that?
Janet Arvizo: Asaf.
Mr. Zonen: Was he the only male in that room at that time?
Janet Arvizo: He was the only male. And plus my two boys and plus the toddler, Azja's baby.
Mr. Zonen: He was the only adult male in the room at the time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, he was the only adult male.
Mr. Zonen: Let's go ahead and resume. (Whereupon, a portion of a CD, Plaintiff's Exhibit No. 810, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Zonen: Miss Arvizo, the tape just ended?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: How did it end?
Janet Arvizo: I turned it off.
Mr. Zonen: We heard some rustling sound within the last couple of minutes before it ended.
Janet Arvizo: I was trying to figure out -- it was like some very high-tech thing, and I couldn't figure out where the “off” was. And I -- I tried my best. And so I -- that -- and even when I turned it off, I was unsure that I had turned it off. So what I did, I put it inside a closet and I put two towels completely covering it.
Mr. Zonen: In what room were you at the time you did that?
Janet Arvizo: In the bedroom.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And where were the workers at this time?
Janet Arvizo: They were in the -- okay. Like I said, Jay's apartment was -- even though it's a one-bedroom apartment, they call it apartment houses. It's long. So they were way over there in the living room. And that's when -- afterwards Asaf was still in there. He was there present with the CPS people.
Mr. Zonen: All right. At the time that you turned off the tape-recorder, were the CPS workers in the same room with you?
Janet Arvizo: Me? No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have to move the tape-recorder to a different room before you turned it off?
Janet Arvizo: No, it was all within the bedroom.
Mr. Zonen: And was the interview going to be held in the living room or in the bedroom?
Janet Arvizo: Asaf had assumed that it was going to be in the bedroom, and they said to, “Take her here. Talk to her here. Leave it here”.
Mr. Zonen: So at one point prior to this, you asked to go to the rest room; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you actually go to the rest room?
Janet Arvizo: No, I was just pretending I was in there.
Mr. Zonen: And the purpose for that was what?
Janet Arvizo: So -- to create some -- some -- so I can have some privacy so I could turn off the tape.
Mr. Zonen: That is what you wanted to do?
Janet Arvizo: That's what I wanted.
Mr. Zonen: Now, in the course of this interview, they represented that this was going to be a completely confidential interview; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And that none of these records or documents would become public; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: Exactly.
Mr. Zonen: And, in fact, what did happen with these documents?
Janet Arvizo: All this stuff got leaked.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
Janet Arvizo: All of it.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: I'll lay the foundation.
Mr. Zonen: Did you see any of these records in the public forum at some subsequent time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Every single sheet of paper that was ever created from my children, about my children or me from the DCFS people, was all over.
Mr. Zonen: All over where?
Janet Arvizo: All over the world.
Mr. Zonen: On television?
Janet Arvizo: On television. Internet. Every single place.
Mr. Zonen: How long after this interview was it that that happened?
Janet Arvizo: Right after he was arrested.
Mr. Zonen: “He” being Mr. Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: Michael. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: How long did this interview go on after you turned off the tape-recording?
Janet Arvizo: After I had turned off -- I used the rest room. Turned off the tape-recorder. And then I got extremely frightened, because I saw him still there with the CPS people. And that's when he called me over. And I went over there, the separate area out of the bedroom, and that's when he had told me that he had placed another one -- the ladies are still distracted with my kids. And so that's when he had talked to me and told me about that there was another one there. And I'm like, “Where?” I had been in the rest room. “Where”.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you?
Janet Arvizo: No, he didn't tell me where this one was at.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you whether it was open or hidden? Did he say anything about it?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know whether or not there was a second one in that room?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: To this day you don't?
Janet Arvizo: To this day I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: Did Asaf finally leave and go outside?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did Azja go outside?
Janet Arvizo: Azja had left almost immediately. Azja and the baby.
Mr. Zonen: In what room did the interview finally take place?
Janet Arvizo: It took place in the -- okay, the dining and the living room, it's combined. But it just looks like, you know --
Mr. Zonen: There is some conversation with you and the social worker that's on this tape; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Where did this conversation take place? Where was the tape-recorder during that conversation?
Janet Arvizo: In the bedroom.
Mr. Zonen: So they were with you initially in the bedroom?
Janet Arvizo: No, no, no. I'm sorry, I'm thinking about when the lady was talking to me by myself.
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: And I tried to tell her, and that's when Asaf popped up.
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: That part, when there's one person talking to me is -- towards the end is in Jay's bedroom.
Mr. Zonen: And that person came into the bedroom with you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, she came into the bedroom.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know who that person was, what her name was?
Janet Arvizo: I don't remember her name, but I can -- I can tell you who -- who it is by the description.
Mr. Zonen: By the description?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I can.
Mr. Zonen: There were how many social workers there at the time?
Janet Arvizo: Three.
Mr. Zonen: Did one appear to be a supervisor to you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, she -- Karen Walker.
Mr. Zonen: And the person who had the conversation with you that is picked up, was that Karen Walker or one of the others?
Janet Arvizo: You could pick up Karen Walker in the beginning. But this one was not Karen Walker in the bedroom.
Mr. Zonen: All right. To the extent that this tape-recording goes on for approximately 19 minutes, does this tape-recording accurately capture the conversations?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. And Asaf began taping when the CPS women walked in.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, we would move to introduce into evidence Exhibit No. 810 with the representation that the transcript will be furnished within the day.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Zonen: How long did that interview go on with Child Protective Services or Department of Child Family Services?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah, I couldn't tell you, Mr. Zonen.
Mr. Zonen: At -- presumably this conversation ended at some point in time, did it not?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did they make any representations to you, “they” being any of the social workers?
Janet Arvizo: The three women?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: They were just concerned about Mr. Jackson. They just didn't want to be sued by Michael Jackson. They had not a single sheet of paper in front of them. They didn't even take a single piece of note from me or my children.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if they tape-recorded the conversation?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: You didn't see a tape-recording?
Janet Arvizo: I didn't see anything.
Mr. Zonen: They didn't tell you they were tape-recording?
Janet Arvizo: They didn't tell me.
Mr. Zonen: None of them had notes that they were taking?
Janet Arvizo: None of them had a single sheet of pad, notepad, pencil, pen, pulled out. All they kept telling me was that they didn't want to be sued by Michael Jackson, over and over. Remember I told you there was a difference of people? The one that had been brought out way, way -- her sole concern was my children. But in these, their sole concern was Michael Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: Did they ask any questions of your children in your presence?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, they did.
Mr. Zonen: Did they ask them if anything had happened to them when they were at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Zonen: What did they ask them?
Janet Arvizo: It was just -- it was more of a -- of a pep talk.
Mr. Zonen: What did your children say to them in their presence?
Janet Arvizo: They basically said happy things about Michael. And them being together.
Mr. Zonen: And did you do the same?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell them that he was a father figure to your children?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did. Almost identical to the scripted video. But not as long. It was kind of like -- it was extremely short.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Presumably they left at some time after?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Who was still present among the ones that you've previously identified after the social workers left?
Janet Arvizo: Azja, the baby, Asaf, me, the children, then Vinnie was there now. After the CPS women walked out.
Mr. Zonen: Excuse me. Did Asaf talk to you after the social workers left?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. He was making sure that me and Azja had no private time. And he had told me, “Hold on. Vinnie wants to tell you something”. And he escorted Azja and the kids out to Azja's car.
Mr. Zonen: Now, did Asaf in your presence retrieve the tape-recorder?
Janet Arvizo: I think -- I remember him walking into the bedroom, but that's the -- because what happened was when -- after -- when the CPS women came, I ran into the bedroom and I put it back in the same place that he had placed it.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And did he then retrieve it?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And he retrieved it from the same place?
Janet Arvizo: From the same place.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did he make any effort to listen to it in your presence?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell him that you had stopped it?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Or attempted to stop it?
Janet Arvizo: I -- yeah, I tried and -- but I did end up turning it off. Because I was pushing.
Mr. Zonen: Did he say anything to you at all about whether or not this tape had run the entire time? Did he make any inquiries of you?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any conversation with Asaf at all following the moment when the social workers left?
Janet Arvizo: Well, Vinnie was there now. And he told me that Vinnie had -- that Vinnie had to talk to me.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Janet Arvizo: While he escorted Azja and the children out to Azja's car.
Mr. Zonen: So there was no additional conversation?
Janet Arvizo: No additional conversation. This is the best I can remember.
Mr. Zonen: With Asaf?
Janet Arvizo: With Asaf. He told me that Vinnie had something to tell me.
Mr. Zonen: Did you then talk with Vinnie at that point?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What did Vinnie say to you?
Janet Arvizo: That I had done -- that I had not done an adequate job on the video, and we were going to have to proceed with leaving out of the country.
Mr. Zonen: Is this the first time that anybody talked to you about your performance or the performance of the children in the rebuttal video?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it was Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: And he said it wasn't adequate?
Janet Arvizo: That's right.
Mr. Zonen: Did he give you any specifics as to what was not adequate in this interview?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah, that I -- I was supposed to stick strictly to the script. I went out of -- the things I got in trouble for, because of God, the Child Welfare Services thing, and Gavin's cancer.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, we have seen this video a couple times already.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Let's go back. These are things that Vinnie specifically told you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Let's start with the first one. What did he say about references to God?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. I was supposed to say that Michael healed Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: And did you not say that?
Janet Arvizo: I did not say it exactly like they wanted me to. Instead I said -- Dieter had also presented to me to say, “Via God's Grace”, because I was so, “No, it's God who healed Gavin, not Michael healed Gavin. God did”. And so then I was supposed to say that sentence plus that, them.
Mr. Zonen: And what did he say about the other two issues that you had mentioned?
Janet Arvizo: That I was supposed to make no issue -- see, the whole video, plus the outtakes, was also scripted. It wasn't -- it wasn't -- it was the -- the whole thing, from outtakes, to video filming, to everything, every single thing was part of the choreography.
Mr. Zonen: What did he say to you specifically, Vinnie? What did he say to you about the other two issues that you mentioned?
Janet Arvizo: Well, I didn't say about Gavin's cancer, that's why they repeatedly -- I wasn't on target about that, what they wanted.
Mr. Zonen: What did he want you to say more about Gavin's cancer?
Janet Arvizo: Well, how they had scripted it.
Mr. Zonen: How was that? How was it different than what you actually said?
Janet Arvizo: Well --
Mr. Zonen: Do you recall?
Janet Arvizo: The best I can remember is that I said Gavin -- about -- I totally was not on script about Gavin's cancer. I said from my heart.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And what was the third thing?
Janet Arvizo: The Child Welfare Services, I was supposed to make no commentary about that at all. Zero.
Mr. Zonen: And you did?
Janet Arvizo: And I did.
Mr. Zonen: Now, where did everybody go after this took place and the social workers were gone? Where did the kids end up going at that point?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. The kids and Azja went to Neverland, and they were also being followed, and Azja don't know she's being followed.
Mr. Zonen: Just tell us where they went. They went back to Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, they went to Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: Did they get any sleep that night at all?
Janet Arvizo: The children?
Mr. Zonen: Yeah.
Janet Arvizo: They must have slept about one hour. About one hour.
Mr. Zonen: Where?
Janet Arvizo: At Jay's.
Mr. Zonen: At Jay's house before the workers got there?
Janet Arvizo: Before the workers got there. And me? Zero.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have to wake them up?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Excuse me. Your Honor, I'd like to approach the witness, if I can, to show a couple of exhibits already shown to counsel, defense counsel.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Zonen: Before I do that, I need a stapler.
Mr. Zonen: I'd like to show you Exhibit No. 811. And then I'm going to show you 812. Let's start with 811 here.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: 811 is a collection of four pieces of paper stapled together; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Have you ever seen any of those documents before?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Tell us what those documents are.
Janet Arvizo: This is when we got off the car at Hamid's house, Vinnie had told me that I had to sign these releases. And this was part of it.
Mr. Zonen: Now, are these the releases, in fact, that were given to you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And did you, in fact, sign that release?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And why did you do that?
Janet Arvizo: Because this is all part of what they requested.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Janet Arvizo: In order -- in order for us not to leave the country and for my children to be let go and not have to deal with this anymore.
Mr. Zonen: Did you consult with an attorney before signing that release?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any discussions with Vicky Poderevski about that release?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Was there any other attorney that was brought to the -- to the -- to the house to --
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever talk with Mark Geragos about that release?
Janet Arvizo: No. I've never even spoke to Mark Geragos.
Mr. Zonen: Never had any conversation?
Janet Arvizo: Zero conversation.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever meet Mark Geragos?
Janet Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have some discussion with either Vinnie or anybody else there about the nature of that release before signing it?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: I'd like you to look at the next exhibit that's -- incidentally, before you turn back, there's four pages there.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us how each of those pages differ from one another.
Janet Arvizo: I -- I don't understand your question.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Is the -- are the signatures the same on each one?
Janet Arvizo: Of -- no. They're all different, except Vinnie's. Vinnie's is the same on all of them.
Mr. Zonen: And whose are the other signatures? Is one of the signatures yours?
Janet Arvizo: My three children and myself.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have a recollection of your three children actually signing those releases?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I do.
Mr. Zonen: Were you present at the time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I was.
Mr. Zonen: Was anything explained to them at the time they signed it?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you encourage them to sign it?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Who was it who presented the releases to them?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: And, in fact, Vinnie's signature is on each of them as well?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Do you recall if any of your children asked any questions about those releases before signing them?
Janet Arvizo: They didn't.
Mr. Zonen: Did anybody talk to you about whether or not releases signed by a child would be legally binding?
Janet Arvizo: I'm sorry?
Mr. Zonen: Did anybody talk to you about the question of whether or not releases that are signed by a child -- wait till the question is asked.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: That releases signed by a child would be legally binding? Did that discussion come up at all with Vinnie?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Or with anybody else?
Janet Arvizo: No.
The Court: All right. We'll take our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: All right. Counsel?
Mr. Zonen: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Zonen: We were looking at Exhibit 811, which I think you still have in front of you.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And are those accurate copies --
The Bailiff: Oh, microphone, please.
Mr. Zonen: We were looking initially at 811. Those are the four documents that are stapled together. And you've already testified as to what they were --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- and when they were signed. Are those accurate duplicates of the documents signed that evening by you and your three children?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And, Your Honor, I would move to introduce 811 into evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Zonen: Now, prior to your signing it or even subsequent to your signing it, was there any subsequent conversation with Vinnie or anybody else about money that would be received?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you discuss with an attorney anything about money?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did they offer you money?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ask for money?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: And I think that you had already said that that was not part of the conversation that you had with Vicky Podberesky.
Janet Arvizo: Exactly.
Mr. Zonen: And did they offer you any other legal assistance, anybody else to talk --
Mr. Mesereau: Object to the word “they” as vague.
Mr. Zonen: I'll withdraw the question.
Mr. Zonen: Did Vinnie tell you about any other lawyers who might be available for you to discuss -- to talk about this release?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Was there ever any representation by them that they would pay you or your children for your participation in this video?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection to the word “them” as vague.
Mr. Zonen: I'll withdraw the question.
Mr. Zonen: Was there ever any representation by Vinnie that you would be paid for your participation in this video?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever request of Vinnie that you be paid for your participation in the video?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever have a discussion about being paid for this video with any employee of Michael Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever talk with Michael Jackson about it?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you expect to be compensated for it?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a conversation prior to doing this video with Jay Jackson about whether or not you should be compensated for this video?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did Jay Jackson have a conversation with you where he reviewed the content of a conversation he had with Frank?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Were you aware that he had had a conversation with Frank about this video?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Now, I'd like you to look at the other document that's right in front of you. It's No. 812. Have you seen that document before?
Janet Arvizo: I've seen it per your investigation and over there at Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. When was the first time you saw that document?
Janet Arvizo: I think the best I remember was in Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: And do you know who it was that showed that document to you?
Janet Arvizo: It was Frank and Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: Was that before the video was done?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: It was after the video was done?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did somebody hand that to you and ask you to sign it?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Who was that who handed it to you?
Janet Arvizo: By this time my signing days were over.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us when that was, approximately.
Janet Arvizo: That was in Neverland after -- after the Chris Carter thing.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Now, the person -- I'm sorry, who was it again who handed that to you?
Janet Arvizo: Frank and Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: Were they both together at the time?
Janet Arvizo: Sometimes together.
Mr. Zonen: But on the first occasion that you saw this document --
Janet Arvizo: Frank.
Mr. Zonen: -- it was Frank? Did you see that document on more than one occasion?
Janet Arvizo: Wait. Best I remember. It could have been Vinnie. Vinnie or Frank. I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: Take a moment. Take a moment.
Janet Arvizo: Uh-huh. I think -- the best I can remember, I think -- yeah, the best I can remember was Vinnie, then Frank, then both. That's the best I can remember.
Mr. Zonen: Let's start with Vinnie, whether he was first or second. Do you remember what Vinnie specifically said to you about that document?
Janet Arvizo: “Sign here”.
Mr. Zonen: Did he explain what it was?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did he explain what it was for?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did he give you any detail at all about that document or why he wanted you to sign it?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: How about Frank? When he talked to you individually, what did he say about that document?
Janet Arvizo: Nothing. Just, “Sign it”.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember when this was relative to the video that you had already done?
Janet Arvizo: After.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know approximately how long after?
Janet Arvizo: No, I wouldn't be able to tell you.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did Frank give you any direction as to why he wanted you to sign that document?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: And when the two of them were together and spoke to you about that document, did either one of them, in the course of that conversation, say anything to you about why they wanted you to sign it?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, the document that you have in front of you --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- has your name preprinted; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: Uh --
Mr. Zonen: At the bottom of the page?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, I see. Yeah. At the bottom.
Mr. Zonen: And was that how it was at the time that they had handed it to you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you, in fact, refuse to sign that document?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: You never did?
Janet Arvizo: Huh-uh.
Mr. Zonen: In the course of your --
Janet Arvizo: I got in trouble for that.
Mr. Zonen: -- discussions with either Vinnie or Frank about your signing or not signing that document, did you make a demand for money?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever ask them for money?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell them why you didn't want to sign the document?
Janet Arvizo: Because my signing days were over. That's it.
Mr. Zonen: What does that mean?
Janet Arvizo: They had me sign a bunch of different things --
Mr. Zonen: Were there --
Janet Arvizo: -- over the course of from Miami to this. I'm talking in total. And that's it. You know, “Let me go. Let my kids go”. That's all I wanted.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Ultimately you did not sign that document?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you see if there were similar copies of that document but with the names of your children?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did they show them to your children at all?
Janet Arvizo: I -- they may have. They may have. Because they had a period of time when they were alone with the children.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know from personal knowledge? In other words, did your children ever sign those documents in your presence?
Janet Arvizo: In my presence, never.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Do you have any information, one way or the other, as to whether or not they ultimately signed that release on 812?
Janet Arvizo: I don't know about this release.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Is that, in fact, an accurate copy of the release that was shown to you at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Were you shown that release on more than one occasion?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: On how many separate occasions were you shown that release?
Janet Arvizo: I wouldn't be able to tell you, Mr. Zonen.
Mr. Zonen: Can you give us a sense of it?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. More than once?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, I would move to introduce 812 into evidence at this time.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Zonen: Just one moment, Your Honor, please. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Zonen: May I approach the witness, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Miss Arvizo, I'm showing you No. 814 for identification. No. 814 for identification. I'd like to -- I'd like you to take a look at this, please. Take a moment and look at it.
Janet Arvizo: Uh-huh. Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Is that a document you've seen before?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Where did you see that before?
Janet Arvizo: I think I seen this in -- I think I seen this in Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Is that your handwriting?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know whose handwriting it is?
Janet Arvizo: This is Vinnie's.
Mr. Zonen: Was that drafted in your presence?
Janet Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Zonen: Turn the document over, if you would.
Janet Arvizo: Oh, my God.
Mr. Zonen: Excuse me. Tell us what that is on the other side of the document.
Janet Arvizo: It's the same one.
Mr. Zonen: In other words, it's --
Bailiff Cortez: Your microphone, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. We're back on.
Mr. Zonen: I've now asked you to turn this document over on the other side.
Janet Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And what is it on the other side?
Janet Arvizo: It's the same one.
Mr. Zonen: It's the copy of exhibit number what?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry, exhibit number what? Tell us what exhibit that is. I think it's 812. No?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, 812.
Mr. Zonen: So the back side of the one that I just showed you which has Vinnie's handwriting --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- is, in fact, a copy of 812?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Is it the one that has your name preprinted or one of the kid's?
Janet Arvizo: It's mine, preprinted.
Mr. Zonen: Did Vinnie ever show you that document, the written one?
Janet Arvizo: I don't -- I can't remember. I --
Mr. Zonen: Do you have a recollection of having seen it at some point in time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I think so. At Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever sign a handwritten document?
Janet Arvizo: A handwritten document?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Is your signature on that document?
Janet Arvizo: No, it isn't.
Mr. Zonen: But your name is on it?
Janet Arvizo: But my name is on it.
Mr. Zonen: Does that appear to be some form of a model release?
Janet Arvizo: It says, “This model release...”.
Mr. Zonen: Was there ever a discussion between you and Vinnie or you and Frank about coming up with some kind of a release that was suitable for you?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: The release that you're holding in your hand right now, the printed form on the back of that page, that was presented to you before or after you did the video rebuttal?
Janet Arvizo: After.
Mr. Zonen: You can go ahead and put those down.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Miss Arvizo, 812 that I showed you initially, the one that does not have something on the back --
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: -- is that, in fact, an accurate copy of the release that was given to you by both Vinnie and Frank?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I'd move -- is 812 in evidence already?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: It is in evidence. Okay. Never mind.
Mr. Zonen: Tom, do you want to stipulate to this coming in?
Mr. Mesereau: No.
Mr. Zonen: Then I'll lay the foundation. Excuse me.
Mr. Zonen: After the social workers left and your kids went back to Neverland, where did you go on that day?
Janet Arvizo: Well, that began the process of getting the passports and visas. The first step was getting the birth certificates.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And did you, in fact, get birth certificates that day?
Janet Arvizo: On that day was the application. And when I arrived there, I had to do -- they -- I had to write a little kind of paragraph stating that it was an emergency; that I had to get out -- something about out of the country. I don't recall, but they wanted it fast enough.
Mr. Zonen: Did they say -- who is “they”?
Janet Arvizo: Michael's people.
Mr. Zonen: Well, somebody in particular had you write something?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie. And Frank over the phone. Frank never left our side, whether he was on the phone or in person.
Mr. Zonen: Vinnie asked you to write something that stated it was an emergency?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you what that was for?
Janet Arvizo: Well, that's what -- the information that he had got, because he had asked the birth certificate people that he needed it immediately. And they had told him, “No, the only way we can do it, if there's an emergency”. And so he had told me that to write it's an emergency.
Mr. Zonen: Who was it who told you, “You're going to Brazil now”?
Janet Arvizo: Frank, Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: What did you tell them in response to whether or not you wanted to go to Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: They knew I didn't want to go.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell them that?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us why you didn't want to go.
Janet Arvizo: I didn't want to go because first, first and main reason, is Gavin's doctor is here. He has to see an oncologist and a nephrologist. He depends on those doctors, first. And second, I waited a lifetime to find someone I could give a valentine to, and that was Jay.
Mr. Zonen: You didn't want to leave that relationship?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell this to either Vinnie or Frank?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What did they say?
Janet Arvizo: Well, the part about no, no going to Brazil. Not the part about Jay.
Mr. Zonen: Did you talk to either Vinnie or Frank about medical issues?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. I told him I couldn't -- you know, I'm trying to negotiate for mine and my children's freedom --
Mr. Zonen: Uh-huh.
Janet Arvizo: -- by saying, you know, “Sorry, I can't go”, you know. “The doctors are here”. And nope, still got to go.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Why did you ultimately agree to go? I mean, why not just say, “I'm not going”?
Janet Arvizo: Because of my parents' life, my -- and Jay's life.
Mr. Zonen: What does that mean, “your parents' life” and “Jay's life”?
Janet Arvizo: Well --
Mr. Zonen: What did that have to do with going to Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: That they were going to be killed.
Mr. Zonen: Who told you that?
Janet Arvizo: Frank. Frank became the worst out of all of them.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any additional conversations with either Dieter or Ronald?
Janet Arvizo: No, the Germans are out of the picture. They're no longer in the picture. Slowly -- there was a transition period where Ronald and Dieter were replaced by Frank and Vinnie. Frank and Vinnie took the spots of Ronald and Dieter. The Germans are out of the picture now.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell them that you were going to go to Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you start doing things toward going to Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And you started to mention something about birth certificates.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Now, on this -- was it the same day as the interview that you had with the department -- with the social workers that you went and started gathering up materials?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Same day.
Mr. Zonen: What materials did you gather?
Janet Arvizo: The only thing was the birth certificate application. They -- they assumed that we were going to get the application on the spot, and so --
Mr. Zonen: Counsel? (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Zonen: May I approach the witness, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you want these separate from the notebooks at the time we introduce them?
The Court: I'm sorry?
Mr. Zonen: I think I've made the decision already. I'll withdraw that question.
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to show you three items that are part of one exhibit. We will ultimately staple it together. At the moment it's three separate pages. And this exhibit number is No. 259. I'd like you to look at the three different pages. Do you know what this is?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, this is an application for the birth certificate.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And have you seen these documents before?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah. This is on -- when we did the application thing, when we had a paper.
Mr. Zonen: At the time you actually got the applications?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, yes.
Mr. Zonen: And who were you with when you got those applications?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie, and the people that were following us. I always had a crew following us.
Mr. Zonen: There were others in a separate car?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know who was in the separate car?
Janet Arvizo: No, I never knew. And that was the scary part. Vinnie would always point them out to me.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead and look at this document now, which is No. 259.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And are those, in fact, applications for each of you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Whose signature is on those applications?
Janet Arvizo: There's no signature. Just printed.
Mr. Zonen: It's just printed out?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Is any of that your handwriting?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it's all my writing.
Mr. Zonen: And then each of the names are on here; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And each of the children's names are on here?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Are those, in fact, accurate copies of those applications for birth certificates?
Janet Arvizo: I feel they are.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember where it was they were deposited?
Janet Arvizo: In Norwalk. It's by the 605 freeway.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Now, the third document in here titled “The Registrar Recorder” --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- does have a signature on it, does it not?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And whose signature is that?
Janet Arvizo: That's mine. This is that emergency thing.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And that you recall signing?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And the date on it is what, now?
Janet Arvizo: The date on it is February 20th, the day of the CPS meeting. Afterwards.
Mr. Zonen: I would move to introduce into evidence Item No. 259.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Zonen: May I approach through here, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: If you would staple them together as one exhibit.
The Court: When you previously marked that exhibit, you meant it to have three pages when you prepared your notebook?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Miss Arvizo, I'm going to show you now Exhibit No. 2-6-0. No. 2-6-0. 11 pages, separate. We will staple them together as one exhibit, No. 2-6-0. I'd like you to turn through the pages of that exhibit, please. And when you've gone through each of the pages, let us know.
Janet Arvizo: Read them?
Mr. Zonen: You don't need to read it in its entirety.
Janet Arvizo: Oh, okay.
Mr. Zonen: Just gain familiarity with them.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Have you seen these documents before?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. I'm going to separate them now and I'm going to show you four specific pages on here of the documents.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Take a look at those four pages. Tell me what they are.
Janet Arvizo: It says up here, “Application for U.S. Passport”.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Are these, in fact, four pages of applications for a passport for you and your children?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. This isn't my writing.
Mr. Zonen: All right. That's my next question. Let's begin with -- and perhaps what we can do is we can number these. This exhibit is 260. We're going to number these four pages specifically 260-A, B, C and D. And if I can have four tags for that. Well, let's do it as separate tags. 260-A, B, C and D. And then we'll distinguish them that way. Let's start with the --
The Court: Do you realize that exhibit is in, already admitted in its entirety?
Mr. Zonen: Would you prefer to distinguish these four pages from the other -- oh, it's already in evidence?
The Court: It's in evidence in its entirety.
Mr. Zonen: Can we just label it with a pen, then, those four pages on the outside of the vinyl cover, A, B, C and D? Can we do that?
The Court: All right. They have numbers within them, don't they?
Mr. Zonen: I --
The Court: 821 and 822?
Mr. Zonen: Do they?
The Court: They do in the book you gave me. That's in the bottom in the right-hand corner.
Mr. Zonen: Yes, they do.
The Court: Could you just reference those numbers?
Mr. Zonen: I sure can.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Zonen: I sure can. Let me just have a moment to make sure I have the right numbers. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, the numbers that I'm looking at in the lower right-hand corner, mine are in red, is that what you have in your notebook?
The Court: They're not in red, but --
Mr. Zonen: Are those numbers Q-1, Q-2, Q-3 and Q-4?
The Court: No.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. That's my concern.
The Court: Go ahead the way you were going to do it. That's fine.
Mr. Zonen: Let's do it the way -- we're just going to take one, two, three and four, four documents. And let's start with the first one, and write -- on the vinyl on the lower left hand, just write “A”, the letter “A”. And this one is whose application, please?
Janet Arvizo: This one is mine.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Is your signature on it?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, my signature is on it.
Mr. Zonen: Is the content of the application your handwriting or your printing?
Janet Arvizo: No, it isn't.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know who filled this out?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie did.
Mr. Zonen: Did he fill it out in your presence?
Janet Arvizo: No, he told me he did.
Mr. Zonen: And where was it that he had you sign it? Where were you? Not on the document. Where are you at the time he had you sign it?
Janet Arvizo: I think it was when I was in the motel.
Mr. Zonen: And in this particular one, No. A, does this application have on it a destination?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it does.
Mr. Zonen: What is that destination?
Janet Arvizo: The “Destination” says, “Countries to be visited: Italy, France”.
Mr. Zonen: Did anybody talk to you about going to Italy or France?
Janet Arvizo: No. No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you notice that at the time that you signed that application --
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: -- that it said “Italy” or “France”?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Was there any discussion about going to someplace other than Brazil at the time that you signed that document?
Janet Arvizo: No. Only Brazil at that time.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, let's go to the next one and mark a “B” on the second one in the lower hand, on top of the vinyl. And whose picture is that, please?
Janet Arvizo: That's my daughter Davellin.
Mr. Zonen: On the first one, “A”, is your picture as well, is it not?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it is.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know where those pictures were taken?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. I think -- I don't know. I think I remember it's a Walgreen's. I think. I may be off. My best estimate is a Walgreen's.
Mr. Zonen: They took you there?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: Vinnie took you there?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was that a Walgreen's someplace near Neverland or someplace in Los Angeles?
Janet Arvizo: Here. No, somewhere right here in Neverland. Here in Neverland, I think.
Mr. Zonen: Here in Santa Barbara County?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, that's the best that I can remember.
Mr. Zonen: Again, the handwriting on this one, or the printing on this one, is that your daughter's printing?
Janet Arvizo: No, it isn't.
Mr. Zonen: Is there a signature on there?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it is.
Mr. Zonen: And whose signature is that?
Janet Arvizo: I don't know if it's my daughter's signature. I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: Were you present at a time that that was handed to your daughter?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Does that appear to be your daughter's signature?
Janet Arvizo: I wouldn't be able to tell you that.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. What's the destination on that particular application?
Janet Arvizo: This one says, “Italy, France”.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Move to the next one. And let's mark that one “C”. Whose picture is that, please?
Janet Arvizo: That's my son Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And the application handwriting is whose?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: Is there a signature on that?
Janet Arvizo: No, there isn't, of his.
Mr. Zonen: So is there a signature at all?
Janet Arvizo: That's mine.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And where it says on there “Gavin Anton Arvizo” --
Janet Arvizo: That's printing.
Mr. Zonen: It's printed?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: That's your signature?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Gavin's signature is nowhere on there?
Janet Arvizo: No, it isn't.
Mr. Zonen: Did you sign that at the time you signed the other one?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: The destination on that is what again, please?
Janet Arvizo: “Italy, France”.
Mr. Zonen: Move to the next one, please. And this would be “D”. Who is that?
Janet Arvizo: That's Star.
Mr. Zonen: The handwriting on that is whose, please?
Janet Arvizo: The handwriting is my name.
Mr. Zonen: The handwriting is your name?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And the signature on that is whose?
Janet Arvizo: It is mine.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did Star sign that at all?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: And the destination of that is what?
Janet Arvizo: “Italy, France”.
Mr. Zonen: If you haven't already labeled that as “D”, please go ahead and do that, lower left.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, as to the collection of these documents, which I would ask to be bound together and admitted as No. 260, I believe already in evidence; is that correct?
The Court: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: Are any of these subsections, A, B, C or D, not yet in evidence?
The Court: No, the whole package is in.
Mr. Zonen: The whole package is in, all right. May I approach through here?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Item No. 261, currently in evidence, I believe --
The Court: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: -- is a collection of one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine -- ten different pages. I'd like you to take a moment and just look through them to gain familiarity with each of them. Have you seen any of these documents before?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I would like to show you specifically a couple pages in here. Let's go ahead and mark each of these A through, on the vinyl as we did before, so we can distinguish one page from the other. Just mark “A” on the first page here, and then we're going to skip through it.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: The second page we'll mark “B”. Put it right there, if you can. What is this, No. B, please?
Janet Arvizo: It says, “Visa Application Form”.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And is your picture on that?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Is there handwriting on that application or printing?
Janet Arvizo: Printing.
Mr. Zonen: Is that your printing?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you not fill that out?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Is there a signature on there anywhere? Is that your signature?
Janet Arvizo: No, it isn't my signature.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know whose signature it is?
Janet Arvizo: It's Vinnie's.
Mr. Zonen: Is the signature in Vinnie's name or is it in your name?
Janet Arvizo: His name.
Mr. Zonen: But nowhere on there is your signature?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Now, the photograph that's on there is, in fact, your photograph; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it is.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember where that photograph was taken?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't.
Mr. Zonen: Does it list the names of your parents?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it does.
Mr. Zonen: And are their names accurately listed on there?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, they are.
Mr. Zonen: First, middle and last name as to both your parents?
Janet Arvizo: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever see this document prior to the grand jury?
Janet Arvizo: This one?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: I don't remember that.
Mr. Zonen: I mean, did you see it -- did Vinnie ever show you that document?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, no. Vinnie never showed me this.
Mr. Zonen: Were you aware at the time that there was an application process under way for visas to go to Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: He had told you that?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you anything about the applications that would go with it?
Janet Arvizo: No. I was aware where Brazil was in the future.
Mr. Zonen: Let's mark this -- let's mark this next page 261-C. Do you know what that document is?
Janet Arvizo: It says something “itinerary”.
Mr. Zonen: “For flights”?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Is your name on that document?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Where is your name?
Janet Arvizo: It says, “Miss Janet Arvizo”, and it has a --
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead.
Janet Arvizo: The address is 111520 Trent -- I guess it's “CT”.
Mr. Zonen: Court?
Janet Arvizo: Trent -- 111520 Trent Court, Calabasas, California 93102.
Mr. Zonen: Have you ever lived at such an address?
Janet Arvizo: I never lived in such an address.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know whose address that is?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know the address for Hamid?
Janet Arvizo: I think it was somewhere -- I heard something like San Fernando Valley.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did anybody ever mention that particular address in your presence?
Janet Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Zonen: Did anybody tell you that there was a flight itinerary to Brazil in effect?
Janet Arvizo: No, not something like this.
Mr. Zonen: Is there a date on that in terms of the flight out?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Can you read it?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. It says up here, “Date, February 25th, 2003”.
Mr. Zonen: All right. The last one was 261-C. We're now going to 261-D, if you'd write that in smaller print right there.
Janet Arvizo: “D”?
Mr. Zonen: “261-D”.
Janet Arvizo: Oh, “261-D”.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us what we're looking at there.
Janet Arvizo: We're looking at my son Star.
Mr. Zonen: All right. That's his photograph?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Taken at the same time and place as yours?
Janet Arvizo: I figure so.
Mr. Zonen: The handwriting on that application is yours? The printing, rather?
Janet Arvizo: The print, it's not mine. It's Vinnie's.
Mr. Zonen: The signature at the bottom left?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie's.
Mr. Zonen: It's in his name? His signature, his name?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. That one is “D”. Let's make this one 261-E. Tell us what that is.
Janet Arvizo: This is my son Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: Is that the same application for a visa?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it is.
Mr. Zonen: It appears to be the same as the other two you've discussed so far?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Again, the same handwriting?
Janet Arvizo: It's printing.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
Janet Arvizo: Printing, the same printing. Printing.
Mr. Zonen: And the signature on the lower left?
Janet Arvizo: It is Vinnie's.
Mr. Zonen: All right. That photograph of Gavin is the photograph that was taken at the same time as yours?
Janet Arvizo: I figure so.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recall that?
Janet Arvizo: I don't remember. This set of pictures, I thought it was --
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember any other occasion that pictures were taken of you or your children for purposes of some official document?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't remember the order.
Mr. Zonen: So this would be F, 261-F, if you could write that perhaps right here in small print.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Tell me what we're looking at now.
Janet Arvizo: We're looking at my son Gavin's birth certificate.
Mr. Zonen: All right. 261-G. And what is that document?
Janet Arvizo: This is mine and my children's child custody -- I don't know what -- exactly what the title, but may I read this?
Mr. Zonen: Read the title.
Janet Arvizo: Yes, sir. It says, “Child Custody and Visitation Order Attachment”.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Tell us what that is, to your understanding. What do you believe that document is?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. To my understanding, this is something to do with the restraining order.
Mr. Zonen: Was there any discussion with either Vinnie or Frank about having to have a legal document?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And that attested to your custody of your children?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you believe that that's what that document is?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it is.
Mr. Zonen: Who is it who asked you to get that?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie and Frank.
Mr. Zonen: Did they explain to you why you needed such a thing?
Janet Arvizo: For the -- the processing of the passports.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know where you got that document?
Janet Arvizo: I think -- I don't remember whether I had -- no, I did, I did. I think I -- yeah, because I always carried one with me all the time, the restraining order.
Mr. Zonen: Do you think that that came from your collection of materials from your restraining order?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, yes, yes, yes. But you asked me from where, so I don't know exactly where, but I always made it a point to have it with me.
Mr. Zonen: Why did you carry a copy of the restraining order --
Janet Arvizo: Because if --
Mr. Zonen: Let me finish the question. Why did you carry a copy of the restraining order with you at all times?
Janet Arvizo: Because of David.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. That's 261-G you're looking at. That's the custody order. 261-H would be who, or what?
Janet Arvizo: Oh. This is a birth certificate for my son Star.
Mr. Zonen: That's 261-H.
Janet Arvizo: H?
Mr. Zonen: Yes. 261-I is the next one. And what is that?
Janet Arvizo: This one is a visa application form, and my daughter is on it.
Mr. Zonen: This is for Davellin?
Janet Arvizo: This is for Davellin.
Mr. Zonen: All right. The printing on that form is whose printing?
Janet Arvizo: This is Vinnie's.
Mr. Zonen: All right. The signature on the bottom is whose?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie's.
Mr. Zonen: The photograph in the document is whose?
Janet Arvizo: It is Davellin, my daughter.
Mr. Zonen: And the photograph was current for that time; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it is.
Mr. Zonen: That was a photograph of her at about that age?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: J, which would be 261-J.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Tell me what that is.
Janet Arvizo: This is a birth certificate for my daughter Davellin.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, I'm not certain that 261 is in in its entirety or if at all. If not, I would move to introduce into evidence at this time 261.
The Court: 261 is in evidence.
Mr. Zonen: It's in evidence.
Mr. Zonen: On the 20th and the 21st, do you remember where you stayed the night of the 20th; in other words, after you were with Vinnie gathering up the birth certificates?
Janet Arvizo: For most of the part on the 20th, I stood in Jay's apartment by myself.
Mr. Zonen: And then that night, did you spend the night in Jay's apartment?
Janet Arvizo: That's what I'm talking about.
Mr. Zonen: Your children were where?
Janet Arvizo: They were already in Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: The next day, did you meet up with Vinnie again?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recall where you went on that next day, the 21st?
Janet Arvizo: The next day, the best I can remember is Marc Schaffel's house, and he -- and Vinnie picked upp the passport applications from his house. That's the best I can remember.
Mr. Zonen: Could I approach the witness, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to show you No. 806. This is in a clear evidence bag which has a separate number of 1732. The court exhibit for identification, No. 806, pulling out the content.
Janet Arvizo: And I'm being followed this whole entire time.
Mr. Zonen: That's okay. Thank you. Inside this exhibit are five pieces of paper. Would you take a look at those, please? Are those, in fact, duplicate copies of birth certificates --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- of you and your children?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Those are originals.
Mr. Zonen: And the cover letter Affidavit to Amend Record?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: County of Los Angeles?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And I'm handing you four items now. Take a look at those.
Janet Arvizo: Finally. Finally.
Mr. Zonen: Well, just look at them one at a time and tell us what they are.
Janet Arvizo: These are --
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead and look at all four first. What are they?
Janet Arvizo: They're my passports.
Mr. Zonen: Now, had you ever seen those documents before today, those passports?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Is this what you understood to be the passports that they applied for at the time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. I had seen them when Vinnie was holding on to them --
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time --
Janet Arvizo: -- in Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: Let's go ahead and put these separate. I don't know if 806 is not in evidence. I would move to move 806 into evidence at this time.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Janet Arvizo: These are the ones that Bill wrote for that I wanted.
Mr. Zonen: “Bill” is Bill Dickerman?
Janet Arvizo: That's right.
Mr. Zonen: You just looked at those four passports. And those four passports are of you and your children; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Now, did you mention that you had seen them at some time previous?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: When was that that you saw them?
Janet Arvizo: In Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: And do you remember when at Neverland it was?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Afterwards.
Mr. Zonen: And in whose possession were those passports?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: How is it that you happened to see them in Vinnie's possession?
Janet Arvizo: Because he was rummaging through his like, I don't know what. I don't know. It kind of looks like a suitcase, but it's not a suitcase. It's a bag that you open up like this, and he was rummaging through the things. And that's where I seen my passports. And I told him, “Could I have them?” And he said, “No”.
Mr. Zonen: How did you know that they were your passports?
Janet Arvizo: Because he was rummaging through all these things, and then I happened to see them, and I said, “Is that my passports?” And he said, “Yes”.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did you see more than just the cover of them?
Janet Arvizo: No, I -- just the cover.
Mr. Zonen: But you asked him if they were yours?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And he said?
Janet Arvizo: He said, “Yes”.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ask to have them?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And what did he say?
Janet Arvizo: He said, “No”.
Mr. Zonen: Did he say why he wasn't giving them to you?
Janet Arvizo: No, he just said, “No”.
Mr. Zonen: Now, at some later time, you retained an attorney by the name of Bill Dickerman?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And did he request, by way of letter that was shown to you, to have these passports returned?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, he did.
Mr. Zonen: Were they, in fact, ever returned to you?
Janet Arvizo: No, they were never returned to me.
Mr. Zonen: Prior to today?
Janet Arvizo: Prior to today.
Mr. Zonen: Have you ever seen them?
Janet Arvizo: I haven't seen them.
Mr. Zonen: Where did you stay after you left on the 21st? Where did you go after the 21st of February; do you recall?
Janet Arvizo: Neverland. After Marc Schaffel's application, I went to Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: Let me ask you about Marc Schaffel. Who is Marc Schaffel? Who do you understand Marc Schaffel to be?
Janet Arvizo: They just -- I know now per the investigation, it's different.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
Mr. Zonen: Hold on. At the time, did you know the name “Marc Schaffel”?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't. But I had spoken to a Marc when the Germans were there.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Janet Arvizo: Marc --
Mr. Zonen: In person --
Janet Arvizo: Marc Schaffel.
Mr. Zonen: All right. In person or over the telephone?
Janet Arvizo: Over the telephone.
Mr. Zonen: Did this person identify himself to you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. He said he was Marc Schaffel.
Mr. Zonen: He said he was Marc Schaffel?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah, and then that's the one that I told about the audio you can hear. And I said he was very unkind, because he was saying I had to do the video, and I thought he was one of the Germans.
Mr. Zonen: This was a person you spoke to prior to doing the rebuttal video?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And he was talking to you about the video?
Janet Arvizo: No. He said I had to do the video. And this is before Jesus.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, at some point on the 21st you were taken to a home?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did somebody tell you that was Marc Schaffel's home?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, Vinnie did.
Mr. Zonen: Did you meet Marc Schaffel?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Zonen: To this day, have you ever seen a picture of him?
Janet Arvizo: To this day I've never met him.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What were you doing at Marc Schaffel's house?
Janet Arvizo: Picking up the applications for passports.
Mr. Zonen: Were you with your kids or by yourself?
Janet Arvizo: No, I was by myself.
Mr. Zonen: With Vinnie?
Janet Arvizo: With Vinnie and the people that would --
Mr. Zonen: You're saying there was another car of people?
Janet Arvizo: There was always someone following us.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know who those people were?
Janet Arvizo: I didn't know at the time.
Mr. Zonen: Could you tell how many people were in that car?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, sometimes there was two. And sometimes there was three. And sometimes there was one.
Mr. Zonen: Did you recognize any of them at any time?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: You already knew Asaf's appearance.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know if Asaf was ever one of them?
Janet Arvizo: No, I just happened to see Asaf one other time, and - I think so - that was during that Calabasas period.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Where did you go on the 21st? Where did you stay after that?
Janet Arvizo: On the 21st, I stood at Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: And for how long were you at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Until the 25th.
Mr. Zonen: And on the 25th, you went where?
Janet Arvizo: To the hotel. I don't know if it's hotel, motel, in Calabasas.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Do you remember the name of it?
Janet Arvizo: I think it's Country Inn & Suites.
Mr. Zonen: In Calabasas?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Let me go back to that period of time from the 21st to the 25th that you were at Neverland. Where did you stay during that time?
Janet Arvizo: In the guesthouse.
Mr. Zonen: And were your children there as well?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Where did Davellin stay?
Janet Arvizo: In the guesthouse next to me.
Mr. Zonen: Not your unit?
Janet Arvizo: And -- and I don't mean to say “guesthouse”. It's actually one building divided into four, and they're actually just bedrooms.
Mr. Zonen: Four separate units in a building?
Janet Arvizo: Four separate units?
Mr. Zonen: Yes. And you had one of the units?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And Davellin had another?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Where were the boys?
Janet Arvizo: The boys were in the house.
Mr. Zonen: And that's Gavin and Star you're referring to?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, yes.
Mr. Zonen: They were staying in the house?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did they stay in the house the entire time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if Michael Jackson was there during that period of time?
Janet Arvizo: At that time, I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have a recollection of seeing him during that time?
Janet Arvizo: At that time, I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: Were you seeing your sons throughout that period?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: The 21st through the 25th?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Where were you during the day?
Janet Arvizo: In the guesthouse.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever leave?
Janet Arvizo: Not really.
Mr. Zonen: Where did you take your meals?
Janet Arvizo: In -- in there.
Mr. Zonen: In the guesthouse?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever go into the main house for meals?
Janet Arvizo: No. No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever walk around the property?
Janet Arvizo: Um, I think in that whole period from when I returned, from the 21st on, I'm being generous if I say -- if I may, my best estimate, if I say twice.
Mr. Zonen: “Twice” what?
Janet Arvizo: I walked out into Neverland. And that's my best -- and we're talking about the period from the 21st on.
Mr. Zonen: Were you having -- were you spending time with your sons during that four-day period?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: On the 25th, where did you go?
Janet Arvizo: On the 25th?
Mr. Zonen: Yes. The 25th of February.
Janet Arvizo: Okay. The 25th of February, went to my son's doctor's appointment. Then from there, I went to -- to Jamie's, and then from there the hotel.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Let's talk about the first two that you mentioned.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: There was an appointment you had, I assume with Gavin; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did. And Vinnie was there.
Mr. Zonen: And Vinnie went with you?
Janet Arvizo: And the people that were following us.
Mr. Zonen: And another vehicle behind you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And did you go with your other two children?
Janet Arvizo: All three of my kids.
Mr. Zonen: All of your kids went?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: The doctor's appointment was where?
Janet Arvizo: In Kaiser. That was his cancer specialist, his oncologist.
Mr. Zonen: And did they make another appointment for him or for testing at that time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes, they did.
Mr. Zonen: What was that appointment?
Janet Arvizo: That was -- I don't know what the correct medical term is, but Gavin has to go -- yes, he is a healthy boy, but he's got a lot of medical issues, and they have to watch out for -- and so they -- I don't know what this one is called. I don't know whether it's called a CT scan, ultrasound. The main purpose of that was to check his kidney, because there's a constant concern that Gavin could possibly lose his kidney.
Mr. Zonen: Is this a concern that exists today?
Janet Arvizo: It still exists today.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, the -- he had an appointment with the doctor. So he actually visited with the doctor on the 25th?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: During that visit, where did Vinnie go?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, Vinnie was right there.
Mr. Zonen: What is “right there”?
Janet Arvizo: With us, with me, the whole entire time with us. And usually our doctor visits, me and the kids are always like a group, you know.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Janet Arvizo: Because when I go to the doctors' appointments, yes, I -- you know, Sergeant Mommy. But I'm always like this, weak in my knees, because I never know what is going to happen, I have to have, after the visit. So prior to the visit, I am holding my breath.
Mr. Zonen: Did Gavin actually have an examination with the doctor?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I assume that was separate from where Vinnie was.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Were you present during --
Janet Arvizo: No, Vinnie was right there. Vinnie had expressed to me that there was something they could listen to me.
Mr. Zonen: I don't understand what “right there” means.
Janet Arvizo: Right there. Right outside the doctor's room.
Mr. Zonen: Is that where you were?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: So he was with you?
Janet Arvizo: And he was with the kids.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And the kids were there, too?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Is this a waiting room of some kind?
Janet Arvizo: No, it isn't. It's actually the hallway outside the doctor's room.
Mr. Zonen: When you left the doctor's office on the 25th, did you have an appointment to have an appointment to return to the doctor at some time in the future?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. I --
Mr. Zonen: Was that for an examination or a test?
Janet Arvizo: No, that was a test. Purely a test. No doctor visit whatsoever.
Mr. Zonen: And what day was that?
Janet Arvizo: March 10th.
Mr. Zonen: What was the test?
Janet Arvizo: I don't know. Like I told you, Mr. Zonen, I don't know whether it was one of those CT scans or ultrasound. The main purpose of that test was to check on his kidney.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Was that the day that you were supposed to turn in a sample of -- a collection of his urine?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Now, let's go back to this, now, again.
Janet Arvizo: A 24-hour collection.
Mr. Zonen: A 24-hour collection. We're going to cover this in just a moment. Let's go back to the 25th.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: You said that you had a doctor's appointment with all of you, and then you went to, you said, The Laugh Factory?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: What was your reason for going to The Laugh Factory?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. We were already on Sunset Boulevard. And the Laugh Factory is not that far from Kaiser, so I tried to -- I tried to -- I'm -- I'm trying -- all along through this period, I'm trying to reach people to help me, to let them know the best that I knew at that time, because it kept evolving into more and more escalation.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive.
Janet Arvizo: Okay. That's my answer, though.
The Court: Just a moment, please.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
The Court: I think it was nonresponsive.
Mr. Zonen: I think it was.
Mr. Zonen: Now, you were going to go to The Laugh Factory. Excuse me, I'm sorry. Were you expecting to meet somebody at The Laugh Factory?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Who were you expecting to meet at The Laugh Factory?
Janet Arvizo: I was expecting to meet just Jamie. And I think that Jamie on his own called Mr. Dickerman.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know who Mr. Dickerman was prior to that day?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And how did you know who Mr. Dickerman was?
Janet Arvizo: Because Jamie had told me that Mr. Dickerman could possibly maybe help put a stop to Gavin's being ridiculed and called “gay” and all these things.
Mr. Zonen: Do you mean the television show?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, because they were making no effort.
Mr. Zonen: Did you understand Mr. Dickerman to be an attorney?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Did you understand him to be Jamie's attorney, Jamie Masada's?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell Vinnie in advance that you were going to go visit with a lawyer?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Zonen: Why not?
Janet Arvizo: Because I was -- there was -- there was consequences, consequences for going out of their plan.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. When you arrived at The Laugh Factory, what did you tell Vinnie was the purpose of going to The Laugh Factory?
Janet Arvizo: Just -- just visit Jamie.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell him who Jamie was?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah, I had told him Jamie's a good friend, and that's about it. And so the second I went in there, there was -- in two minutes I had to leave.
Mr. Zonen: All right. You went in there. Did you go in with any of your children?
Janet Arvizo: I think it was one of them. He had two of them stay with him. And then now Frank's on the phone going crazy because I'm talking to Jamie, so --
Mr. Zonen: Hold on a second. Hold on a second. You're inside The Laugh Factory right now?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: How do you know Frank's on the phone with anybody?
Janet Arvizo: Because Davellin came in running and said, “Mommy, let's” -- “Frank's on the phone, and he's mad and he's going crazy”.
Mr. Zonen: All right. How long were you inside talking to Jamie at that time?
Janet Arvizo: My gosh, it was like -- not that long. Not that long.
Mr. Zonen: What is “not that long”? Five minutes? Ten minutes? 20 minutes? Give us a sense of it.
Janet Arvizo: My best estimate -- my best estimate, less than maybe ten minutes.
Mr. Zonen: Less than ten minutes?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Janet Arvizo: And that's my best estimate.
Mr. Zonen: Where did you go after that? This is the 25th. Where did you go after that?
Janet Arvizo: Then they -- then Vinnie had told me that -- do you just want me to tell -- not what happened prior?
Mr. Zonen: Yes, just where did you go after you left The Laugh Factory?
Janet Arvizo: The motel.
Mr. Zonen: The motel in Calabasas?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Or hotel, the Country Inn.
Mr. Zonen: How many days did you stay in Calabasas?
Janet Arvizo: The 25th through the 2nd of March.
Mr. Zonen: That's a 28-day month, February.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: So you were there five days?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: 25th, 26th, 20 --
Janet Arvizo: And I didn't know I was going to stay there.
Mr. Zonen: Did they tell you why you were there as opposed to going back to Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, Vinnie had said that the killers had arrived at -- at Neverland, so we weren't going to be able to go back. We had absolutely no kind of piece of luggage with us. Nothing. That was a complete surprise.
Mr. Zonen: So --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- where did Vinnie say you were going after the Calabasas hotel?
Janet Arvizo: After?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: Not during?
Mr. Zonen: Well, while you were at Calabasas at that hotel, Vinnie told you that it was not safe to go back to Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: That's right.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did he tell you where you were going to go?
Janet Arvizo: We were going to a motel.
Mr. Zonen: And after the motel?
Janet Arvizo: After -- now, what are you talking? During?
Mr. Zonen: You said you were going to go to a motel. You were in a motel.
Janet Arvizo: Yeah, that's it.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you you were going -- how long did he tell you you were going to have to stay at that motel?
Janet Arvizo: No, he didn't. It was always one day. One day. Every day everything changed.
Mr. Zonen: You had no other clothing with you?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: All your clothing --
Janet Arvizo: No clothing.
Mr. Zonen: -- was at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Was at Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: At some --
Janet Arvizo: Every piece of clothing was at -- in Neverland that I had with me.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time did you go shopping?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Where did you go shopping?
Janet Arvizo: And this is -- again, I had told them this is to replace -- because I wouldn't accept anything from them. It was only in replacement. They said it was not -- not safe to return, so they were going to replace the children's items, and that's how they tricked us.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Ultimately how long did you stay at that hotel at Calabasas?
Janet Arvizo: From February 25th to March 2nd.
Mr. Zonen: And during that time, on how many of those days did you go shopping for clothing?
Janet Arvizo: One day.
Mr. Zonen: Was there any discussion during that five-day period of time as to when you were going to be going to Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. It was -- we were going to Brazil. That's it.
Mr. Zonen: Did they give you a day? Did they say in a week? In a month? Did they say when?
Janet Arvizo: No. No, the second they get them, the second we're going to go.
Mr. Zonen: The second they get what?
Janet Arvizo: The second they get all of this covered.
Mr. Zonen: The documentation that they needed?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: Did you believe at that time that you were actually going to go to Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. And this is the period when I called Wheezy, Louise Palanker.
Mr. Zonen: You called her from the hotel in Calabasas?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't. I don't know where I was. I don't know where I was, but I called her during this period. That I can remember clear.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Who was at the hotel during this five-day period, other than you and your three children?
Janet Arvizo: Frank. Vinnie. Johnny. This -- another guy that I never saw that always would stand outside my window. And then these other people that I never came to find out who they were.
Mr. Zonen: How many other people are we talking about?
Janet Arvizo: Like I said, sometimes in the car there was one, sometimes there was two, and sometimes there was three.
Mr. Zonen: Were they there all the time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Or one of them all the time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Oh, there was -- nobody left my side at all.
Mr. Zonen: Were Frank and Vinnie with you the entire time?
Janet Arvizo: No. It was these people that were all the time.
Mr. Zonen: Somebody named “Johnny” you just mentioned.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What does he look like?
Janet Arvizo: He's -- he's big.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry, I asked you about Johnny.
Janet Arvizo: He's big.
Mr. Zonen: Big?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What color hair does he have?
Janet Arvizo: It's a light color.
Mr. Zonen: Was he there the entire time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, the entire time.
Mr. Zonen: And day and night?
Janet Arvizo: Day and night.
Mr. Zonen: Was there some -- if you walked out of your door, did you always see somebody there?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Absolutely. Outside my door, and outside my window, and wherever we went.
Mr. Zonen: If I could approach the witness, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Showing you No. 26, please, would you tell us who this is?
Janet Arvizo: This is Johnny.
Mr. Zonen: That's Johnny?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: During this period of time did you have telephone calls with anybody else?
Janet Arvizo: Me?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: But my phone calls were being monitored and listened to.
Mr. Zonen: Somebody told you that?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Who?
Janet Arvizo: Frank and Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: Did you believe that to be true?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did believe them.
Mr. Zonen: Notwithstanding that belief, did you make phone calls from the hotel?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did. What I did, I tried to give -- drop clues to every person. I figured -- I figured by all -- this was all going to be resolved by God's miracles, and I figured one day -- there will be one day that all these people could give clues as to when me and my children would have disappeared, clues, clues, and this way this puzzle would have been put together.
Mr. Zonen: Who did you call during that period of time when you were at the hotel?
Janet Arvizo: I called my mom, but I tried to like whisper to her in Spanish, and she said, “Que?” And so -- and --
Mr. Zonen: Your mom's a little hard-of-hearing, isn't she?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, so -- so that didn't help me.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you tell your mother you were going to Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't think so.
Mr. Zonen: She didn't know?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Who else did you call?
Janet Arvizo: But Azja did.
Mr. Zonen: You called Azja during this period of time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, yes. I sneaked it in there.
Mr. Zonen: You called her from where?
Janet Arvizo: From the hotel.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And you say you sneaked it in. What does that mean?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, yes. Like, you know, I was letting her -- I was talking and kind of dropping people clues. Oh, you know, just kind of making --
Mr. Zonen: Hold on a second. The question was, how did you sneak a call in? What does that mean?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. No, no, all my conversations were being monitored and listened to, all of them. What I'm trying to say is, I sneaked it in a way where I -- I said it to her, hoping that nobody had listened in on what I had told her.
Mr. Zonen: Who else did you call besides Azja, your mom and Louise?
Janet Arvizo: Azja, my mom, Louise -- but I didn't call Louise from the hotel. I don't remember where I called her from.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: Um -- um, I think it was one of my cousins. My mom.
Mr. Zonen: Did you call Jay during that period of time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I called Jay. I hadn't called him for days.
Mr. Zonen: And you did call him from that hotel?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you call the police during that time?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Why not?
Janet Arvizo: Because my calls are being monitored, they were being listened to, my parents are in danger, Jay's in danger, and who could possibly believe this?
Mr. Zonen: What do you mean by, “Who could possibly believe it?” What was your concern in that regard?
Janet Arvizo: That nobody would believe me. And that's because Frank said nobody would believe me.
Mr. Zonen: Did you, in your conversation with Jay from the hotel, tell him what was going on?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell him you were going to Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: I told him the same way I tried to talk to Azja. Everything was always broken. It was never complete. So in my -- in the midst of a regular conversation, I'd throw something in, hoping that it hadn't been heard, and yet that this -- that part could stick in somebody's mind, and hopefully one of these days this puzzle could be put together. I tried.
Mr. Zonen: After five days there, where did you go?
Janet Arvizo: Back to Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: So this is now on the 2nd of March; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And how long did you stay at Neverland from the 2nd of March?
Janet Arvizo: Till March 10th.
Mr. Zonen: During that eight-day period of time, where did you stay?
Janet Arvizo: Like I told you, Mr. Zonen, from the 21st on, when I was at Neverland, I just stood in the room. That's it. And that was per their order.
Mr. Zonen: Was there somebody around?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Either Frank or Vinnie, or both. But this guy Joe, he was really scary. You know what's more scary? When you're not spoken to and you're just watched. That was really scary.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know Joe's name?
Janet Arvizo: I don't know his last name, but he's -- he is extremely loyal to him, to Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: What does he look like, “Joe”?
Janet Arvizo: He is tall, kind of balding, a little bit of hair you can see.
Mr. Zonen: Do you mean a shaved head?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know his last name?
Janet Arvizo: I don't know his last name.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever hear it before?
Janet Arvizo: No. Always -- the last names I would always find out by accident. They never told me their last names. Only when I would overhear them.
Mr. Zonen: What was it about Joe's behavior that frightened you?
Janet Arvizo: That -- that this particular specific time, for example, they would stand right outside my window, and Frank and Vinnie would talk to him, and then they'd turn around, Joe would go like this (indicating), and he'd go back and like this (indicating) and just stand there.
Mr. Zonen: Was Chris Carter there during that time?
Janet Arvizo: Chris Carter. Um, I don't know. I don't know. I stood there inside the room.
Mr. Zonen: Was Jesus there during that time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. And whenever Jesus would -- whatever, come into my room, I'd go -- you know, right there in my room I'd try talk to him, and he would tell me, “I can't help you”.
Mr. Zonen: Where were your boys during this time, from the 2nd to the 10th?
Janet Arvizo: From the 2nd to the 10th, they were -- they were with Michael. This time I did see him.
Mr. Zonen: Could you tell if he was there the entire time, from the 2nd --
Janet Arvizo: Oh, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Who are we talking about now?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, because I'd see him. They're running around with my kids like crazy, crazy nuts, you know. You know, I --
Mr. Zonen: All right, wait. You said “him”. Who is “him”?
Janet Arvizo: Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And “they” were running with him. Who are “they”?
Janet Arvizo: My boys.
Mr. Zonen: “Like nuts”, explain that to me. What does that mean?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah, you know, I could see through my window at a distance. I know they're my kids, but they're this little. When you see someone really far, they're about this little, and I see him this much bigger. It's clearly them, them riding around in a go-cart and -- goodness gracious.
Mr. Zonen: Was there something about your boys' behavior at that time that was alarming you?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
Janet Arvizo: No guidelines.
The Court: Just a minute. Overruled. You may answer.
Janet Arvizo: No guidelines.
Mr. Zonen: What does that mean, “no guidelines”?
Janet Arvizo: There's no guidelines. There's -- that's it. I've lost my kids.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any contact with them during this period of time?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: And “no guidelines”. How were they actually behaving? Tell us how they were behaving at that time.
Janet Arvizo: Doing everything they wanted with Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: All day long?
Janet Arvizo: All day long, all night long.
Mr. Zonen: Where were they staying at night?
Janet Arvizo: With Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you ever go into Mr. Jackson's residence at night?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Were you able to go into his residence?
Janet Arvizo: No. From -- like I told you, Mr. Zonen, from the period of the 21st on, no. I'd be generous if I say, as my best estimate, two times.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell the social workers from the Department of Child & Family Services, did you tell them that you would check on your children inside the house throughout the night?
Janet Arvizo: With the DCFS meeting, if you take a smaller version of the video that we did on that same day, if you make it smaller, that's what -- that's what was discussed.
Mr. Zonen: Right. But did you, in fact, tell them that?
Janet Arvizo: I could have. I could have.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know where your children --
Janet Arvizo: And then but don't forget about the other additional tape-recording thing that Asaf had left there.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did you know where the boys were sleeping inside the house?
Janet Arvizo: No. At that time. Now I know.
Mr. Zonen: At the time, where do you believe that they were sleeping?
Janet Arvizo: I believed that the children stayed with children. That's what I believed.
Mr. Zonen: Do you mean his own children?
Janet Arvizo: Well, with other children, because -- just children. That's what I believed.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever ask Gavin or Star where exactly in the house they were sleeping during that time?
Janet Arvizo: At that time, no.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever have any conversations with Michael Jackson during that period of time from the 2nd of March until the 10th of March?
Janet Arvizo: No. Zero. They were having too much fun.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any conversations with either Vinnie or Frank during that period of time?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, God. A lot of them.
Mr. Zonen: And --
Janet Arvizo: I didn't have conversations. They -- they were coming at me.
Mr. Zonen: And what types of things were they telling you at that time?
Janet Arvizo: And just following their orders. Oh, this is one of the things when they were trying to make me sign that -- that waiver.
Mr. Zonen: That waiver.
Janet Arvizo: And I said, “No, no, I'm sorry, but my signing days are over”.
Mr. Zonen: Were your children in school during this period of time that they were at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: No, no school.
Mr. Zonen: Were they getting any private instruction while they were at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: No. See --
Mr. Zonen: No, did you complain about that to anybody?
Janet Arvizo: I brought it to Mr. Jackson's attention --
The Reporter: And to whose attention?
Janet Arvizo: To Mr. Jackson, on that first -- prior to that meeting with Jesus.
Mr. Zonen: During the initial stay?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, the initial --
Mr. Zonen: Early in February?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What did Mr. Jackson say to you about your children getting tutoring or schooling?
Janet Arvizo: That Ronald and Dieter would fix everything.
Mr. Zonen: Now, during this subsequent stay from the 2nd to the 10th of March of 2003, did you complain about them not getting any schooling during that time?
Janet Arvizo: No. My complaining -- my speaking days were over, because the second I would say something, “Ahh”.
Mr. Zonen: The second you would say something, somebody would do something?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Frank would holler at me.
Mr. Zonen: Were you aware that there was a private school located near Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever ask them to send the children to a private school?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time did your children visit a dentist while they were at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: For what purpose?
Janet Arvizo: Remember how I told you I kept trying to do -- do things, Mr. Zonen, about ways -- ways of getting out of there? And so I had told them that if I didn't get -- if I didn't get the orthodontist's teeth -- braces removed, that they will -- the social workers were going to call the police. And originally, Ronald and Dieter, way when the Germans were involved, they had said that it was bad PR for the police to get involved for Mr. Jackson. So I used that, and I told them that they were going -- if I didn't get the braces removed, that they were going to call the social workers.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Janet Arvizo: So I used that, because what I was trying to do was go to my orthodontist, so this way it was someone I knew that could possibly believe me.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, whose idea was it to go to a different orthodontist?
Janet Arvizo: Their idea.
Mr. Zonen: And did you, in fact, go to a different orthodontist?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. And get this: After the orthodontist was closed, no other patient was there. It was after hours, and with that scary guy Joe, and being put on notice that I was being listened and monitored. So again, I, the mother, failed again.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, did they take off the braces at that time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, they took off the braces.
Mr. Zonen: Were they, in fact, ready to have their braces removed?
Janet Arvizo: They were not ready to take off the braces. My children were supposed to have -- I think one of them was, I think two years of orthodontistry. And the other one had -- Star needed -- required orthodontic care, and I think it was about three years. And so we -- the kids only had -- at that period, I think they only had them on for -- oh, I think they only had had them on at a period of six months at that time. And that's my best estimates. So they weren't supposed to be taken off.
Mr. Zonen: Why didn't you simply change your mind about it and say, “No, we won't take them off”?
Janet Arvizo: Then they would have known then that I'm trying to escape. Because every time I tried to leave, there was huge consequences.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a talk with anybody at Neverland about moving out of your apartment on Soto Street?
Janet Arvizo: This was -- it was an evolvement of different things. First evolvement was when -- because the killers had gone to my apartment, I had to move out and different things. But this only came after -- after they found out that I had in my home Michael's letter, a rabbit that he had given my son, which he wanted him to call him “Michael”, just different pictures. So my apartment was meaningless to them until they found out that Michael's things were there.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
Janet Arvizo: That's my whole answer.
The Court: Just a moment. Just a moment. It's sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Let's back up a couple notches if we can.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: The first conversation that you had about moving out of the apartment on Soto Street was with whom? Just tell me the name.
Janet Arvizo: With Ronald and Dieter.
Mr. Zonen: That was with Ronald and Dieter?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Way back.
Mr. Zonen: So that was way back?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And did they talk to you at that time about moving out of the apartment?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, did you tell -- did you tell somebody that in your possessions at that apartment --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- were letters from Michael Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: That answer was “Yes”?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: With whom did you have that conversation?
Janet Arvizo: With Ronald and Dieter.
Mr. Zonen: Now, in fact, where were those letters?
Janet Arvizo: In my apartment.
Mr. Zonen: And where in your apartment were they?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. They were in different places. But one specific place that I remember is, I had a clay pot and it was Gerbera daisies, artificial Gerbera daisies. They weren't real. So when you lift it up, it's empty, because the artificial flowers do not belong to that pot. You can -- you can easily lift it up and out. And I had placed them there. The -- and the reason that I had placed them there is because David is very sneaky. He does things, so I didn't want David to get his hands on them.
Mr. Zonen: The letters were from Michael Jackson to whom?
Janet Arvizo: To Gavin. Purely to Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: Had you read those letters?
Janet Arvizo: Who?
Mr. Zonen: You.
Janet Arvizo: Me? Yes. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Why did you keep them at all, those letters?
Janet Arvizo: Because they -- Michael had sent them, and they said “I love you” to Gavin, and, “Love you, Apple Head”, and “Doo-Doo Head”. Just -- I just kept them, you know, along with all these other things that I had ever received from other people.
Mr. Zonen: You had other letters there as well?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah. From other people, too.
Mr. Zonen: Now, did you tell either Dieter or Ronald where those letters were?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't. I just said they were in my apartment.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell them that anything else was in your apartment that had come from Neverland or from Michael Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah. Pictures. And then the rabbit. It was a little pretend rabbit, not a real rabbit.
Mr. Zonen: All right. A rabbit from Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah, it was just a rabbit that came in a gift basket.
Mr. Zonen: Where was that kept?
Janet Arvizo: That was out in the open.
Mr. Zonen: Now, you said Ronald and Dieter talked to you about moving out of the apartment?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: At some point did either Frank or Vinnie talk with you about moving out of the apartment?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Who was the first, between the two of them, to the best of your recollection?
Janet Arvizo: Frank, on the phone, telling me it was so dangerous.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time did you move out of the apartment?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Who did you tell that you were willing to move out?
Janet Arvizo: I didn't tell them that -- that yes, for sure. That I would think about it.
Mr. Zonen: Who is it that you told that to?
Janet Arvizo: To Frank. But it wasn't a “Yes”. I would think about it.
Mr. Zonen: Were you ultimately moved out of that apartment?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. And this time I had said, “No”. I thought about it, and then it was a “No”.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recall if you signed anything that reflected your willingness to move out of that apartment?
Janet Arvizo: I didn't sign a thing.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a conversation with anybody about moving out?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah. Frank and Vinnie. And then Ronald, Dieter in the beginning.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, was there any rent that was owed on that apartment at that time?
Janet Arvizo: That's another thing that they had found out. It had slipped out --
Mr. Zonen: Hold on just one second.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: The question was, was there any money that was owed on that apartment?
Janet Arvizo: At that current time, it was -- no.
Mr. Zonen: How long had you lived in that apartment?
Janet Arvizo: Five years.
Mr. Zonen: Was there any point in time during that five-year period where you did not pay rent?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And when was that?
Janet Arvizo: That was when Gavin was ill.
Mr. Zonen: And for how many months was that?
Janet Arvizo: That was two months.
Mr. Zonen: And what did the landlord say about that?
Janet Arvizo: One -- one month he gave -- he gave us. And the second one was owed to him, and he had told us to pay it when we can and it's okay.
Mr. Zonen: All right. One month was simply gratis; it was given to you --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- for free?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And the second month you owed?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: How much money was -- what was the rent for that apartment?
Janet Arvizo: My apartment rent was 425. But I was current to the point that -- since 2000. That was since 2000.
Mr. Zonen: All right. So at the time that you were at Neverland for this period between the 2nd and the 10th --
Janet Arvizo: Was already 2003. And I was still current on my month (sic), every month.
Mr. Zonen: How about that one month that you were going to pay back at a later time? Was that ever paid back?
Janet Arvizo: No. Never.
Mr. Zonen: So there was still a --
Janet Arvizo: Yeah, it's something that I knew.
Mr. Zonen: There was still 400-plus dollars that --
Janet Arvizo: No, it was actually -- it was two months that weren't paid. But he said one was okay, and one was -- but it was two.
Mr. Zonen: Well, tell me, what was the amount that was owed at --
Janet Arvizo: 850 from the year 2000. Nothing current. My rent was paid current.
Mr. Zonen: All right. 850 would reflect two months; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And that was --
Janet Arvizo: Of the year 2000.
Mr. Zonen: Didn't you say that one of those months was forgiven?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah, that's what he said. But I didn't -- I still didn't -- you know.
Mr. Zonen: It was either 425, one month, or 850 for two months?
Janet Arvizo: It was for two months, but he had voluntarily said that one month is okay.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Janet Arvizo: But --
Mr. Zonen: Did you believe you owed 850?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if somebody paid off the balance of the rent that was owed?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know who that was?
Janet Arvizo: I came to find out -- it had slipped out of Vinnie that they didn't want no one to be able to -- to miss me or the kids, or start raising questions as to where the kids were. And usually because of -- this is what Vinnie said; that they would possibly start looking for me because I hadn't paid my rent.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if somebody paid off that balance?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I became aware of that.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know who it was that paid it off?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't. That part I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: It wasn't you?
Janet Arvizo: No.
The Court: Counsel? Take a break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
Mr. Zonen: May I approach the witness, please?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Yes, please. Madam Clerk, is 276 in evidence? I don't believe it is. 276.
The Clerk: It hasn't been identified yet.
Mr. Zonen: All right. I'm showing you now Exhibit No. 276, which is two separate sheets, the second one having two documents in it, front and back. And do we have that pen that you had initially? And again, on the vinyl of 276, not on the document itself, perhaps right here, tell us what -- let's mark “A” for 276-A. And is that an envelope?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it is.
Mr. Zonen: To whom?
Janet Arvizo: To me.
Mr. Zonen: From whom?
Janet Arvizo: From my old landlord.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. At the Soto Street address?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And the address to where that was sent?
Janet Arvizo: The address where it was sent was my mother's home address.
Mr. Zonen: In El Monte?
Janet Arvizo: In El Monte.
Mr. Zonen: Let's go to the second document, No. B. And mark that “B”, if you would, please, on the vinyl again.
Bailiff Cortez: You have to speak into the microphone.
Janet Arvizo: Oh.
Mr. Zonen: And does that appear to be a letter?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Is your name typed on the end of that letter?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it is typed.
Mr. Zonen: And is that your signature above it?
Janet Arvizo: No, it's not my signature.
Mr. Zonen: Would you read the content of that letter, please. To yourself.
Janet Arvizo: Oh. Okay. Okay.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What does that letter purport to do?
Janet Arvizo: What does --
Mr. Zonen: What does the letter say?
Janet Arvizo: Oh. It says basically -- should I read it or just tell -- summarize?
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead and read it.
Janet Arvizo: It says, “I, Janet Arvizo, who have lived in Apartment 208, have spoken to Yolanda about ending my lease. As of March 1st, 2003, my apartment is cleaned and I have officially moved out as per the conversation. This letter is official notification of the monthly lease on Apartment 208's termination”.
Mr. Zonen: And what is the date of the letter itself?
Janet Arvizo: March 4th, 2003.
Mr. Zonen: Did you, in fact, sign that letter?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Zonen: Turn the letter over, this document, No. B, over. Is there another letter on that?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, there is.
Mr. Zonen: Is your name on that?
Janet Arvizo: The printed name is on it.
Mr. Zonen: Is there a signature above your printed name?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, there's a signature.
Mr. Zonen: Is that, in fact, your signature?
Janet Arvizo: It is not my signature.
Mr. Zonen: Read that letter to yourself.
Janet Arvizo: Okay. Okay.
Mr. Zonen: And what does that document say?
Janet Arvizo: It says, “As per my conversation with Yolanda, the official final liabilities owed to the management is an amount of $850. This is an official receipt of this liability owed to the building manager and fully absolves me of any further payment. Upon signing this form, the management of the apartment building on 807 North Soto Street, Los Angeles, California, for my apartment, Apartment 208, recognizes payment in full, and no other moneys to be received by the management of this building from me, Janet Arvizo. And I am fully free of any debts owed to the management”.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Were these letters sent to you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Were they sent -- who sent these letters to you?
Janet Arvizo: The landlord did.
Mr. Zonen: Was that after you had already moved out?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Who is it you were talking to about moving out of your apartment? In other words, who at Neverland was it that you were talking to about moving out?
Janet Arvizo: Frank and Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time did you give them the key to that apartment?
Janet Arvizo: I think they had taken the key from me.
Mr. Zonen: I'm --
Janet Arvizo: I think, maybe. I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have a recollection of how they got the key?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: What were your feelings about moving out of your apartment at that time?
Janet Arvizo: Remember how I said I would think about it? Well, at this time now it's a no.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you tell them no, you didn't want to move out of your apartment?
Janet Arvizo: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know where your possessions went to after they moved you out?
Janet Arvizo: No, I do not.
Mr. Zonen: Did they ever tell you where your possessions were moved to?
Janet Arvizo: No, they didn't. That's another reason why I needed Mr. Dickerman's help after I left Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: Did anybody tell you that they were put into storage?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever return to that apartment on Soto Street after you left Neverland at the time?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you talk to anybody at Neverland about the boys being withdrawn from school?
Janet Arvizo: Until afterwards.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry, “afterwards” of what?
Janet Arvizo: Until after they had checked Davellin out.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, Davellin was going to school where at the time?
Janet Arvizo: She was going to school at Roosevelt High School, which was down the street from my Soto Street apartment.
Mr. Zonen: So that was in East Los Angeles?
Janet Arvizo: In East L.A. It's even on Soto Street, the high school.
Mr. Zonen: Now, let me back you up just a little bit, before you went off to Miami.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: I think you had testified that you were living part time at Jay Jackson's apartment in mid-Wilshire.
Janet Arvizo: I was visiting.
Mr. Zonen: And part time at Soto Street?
Janet Arvizo: I lived in Soto Street.
Mr. Zonen: The address that you used for the boys to go to the school that they were in on Wilshire --
Janet Arvizo: First they attended Hollenbeck.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: They attended Hollenbeck. This is a school down the street from Soto Street. And because the boys were not involved in any gangs, they kept getting beat up, because they wouldn't join any gangs. And so I told Jay about it, and so moved them to another school within the same L.A. school district.
Mr. Zonen: And the school that you moved them to was which one?
Janet Arvizo: John Burroughs.
Mr. Zonen: And John Burroughs is located where?
Janet Arvizo: It's near Jay's apartment.
Mr. Zonen: Did you use Jay's address to be able to do that?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And --
Janet Arvizo: And also they became aware of that afterwards, but it was already on the record and they were okay with it.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Now, where were you actually residing during that period of time prior to going to Miami?
Janet Arvizo: In my East L.A. apartment.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Would you spend the nights at Jay's apartment as well?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Can you give us a sense of how many nights a week you would be at the East L.A. apartment and how many nights a week you would be at Jay's apartment, on average?
Janet Arvizo: Depending if Jay had to work late or -- it all depended upon Jay's work.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, when you stayed at Jay's apartment during the week, where did Davellin stay?
Janet Arvizo: She always stood in -- and this is what would happen: We'd all stay there in East L.A. She'd go to school, and then I'd take off on the bus to drop off the boys. And then I'd go to Jay's apartment, clean his apartment, do anything to -- just make myself serviceable.
Mr. Zonen: All right. On the nights that you actually stayed overnight at Jay's apartment --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- during the week, where would Davellin stay?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. When that would happen, I would -- I would contact my parents, and so since my dad has like a swing shift -- he's a truck driver, my dad. I would let my parents know, and then so they'd go by the apartment and go pick up Davellin.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Let me move you back now to this period from the 2nd to the 10th of March, and back at Neverland again.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a discussion with anybody at Neverland about checking your kids out of school?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. After Davellin was checked out.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you have a discussion with anybody about checking Davellin out of school --
Janet Arvizo: No. No.
Mr. Zonen: -- before you checked her out of school?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did Davellin check out of school?
Janet Arvizo: They checked Davellin out of school.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know that they were doing that in advance?
Janet Arvizo: No, I did not know.
Mr. Zonen: And that was from Roosevelt School?
Janet Arvizo: That was Roosevelt.
Mr. Zonen: In East L.A.?
Janet Arvizo: East L.A., yes.
Mr. Zonen: Now, was Davellin out of school this entire period of time?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah. They're off track. So I don't know if they're familiar here with “track”.
Mr. Zonen: Well, let me see if we can figure this out. From the period of time in early February when you first went to Miami --
Janet Arvizo: There's a portion --
Mr. Zonen: Hold on. There's no question pending.
Janet Arvizo: I'm sorry.
Mr. Zonen: From the time you went to Miami in early February until the 10th of March, was Davellin going back to high school at all?
Janet Arvizo: I think that's -- I think -- I can't remember, but I think Davellin was off track. “Off track” means you don't go to school during that period.
Mr. Zonen: This is one of those schools where students --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- attend --
Janet Arvizo: It's year-round school.
Mr. Zonen: It's one of those schools where students attend at different times?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And it's sometimes not necessarily in the summertime --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- they are out of school?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. And I think that's the best I can remember.
Mr. Zonen: Now, as to the boys, did you have a conversation with anybody at Neverland about the boys being checked out of school?
Janet Arvizo: Okay, this is when Frank and Vinnie holler at me that I have to sign this paper. That's why it came to a point where my signing days were over. I had to sign a paper for them to check out the boys, but with Davellin, they did it without my signature. They did it themself.
Mr. Zonen: I'd like to show you a document now, or a couple documents. If I may approach the witness, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Exhibit No. 271 -- do you have a pen there?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I do.
Mr. Zonen: Exhibit No. 271 for identification, not in evidence, for identification, mark that first one on there “A”, and then we're going to move on to the second one. Let's go to 271-B. Mark that “B”, and tell me what that is.
Janet Arvizo: This one?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: Okay. It says, “Checkout sheet”.
Mr. Zonen: From where?
Janet Arvizo: From John Burroughs.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Is --
Janet Arvizo: The boys' -- my boys' school.
Mr. Zonen: John Burroughs Middle School?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Is this for one of your sons?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. This is for Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Is there a date on that?
Janet Arvizo: It says March 6th, 2003.
Mr. Zonen: Is there a signature on that document?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, there is. It says, “Parent's signature”.
Mr. Zonen: And whose signature is it?
Janet Arvizo: It's Vinnie's.
Mr. Zonen: All right. It says “date of birth” on there?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Is that Gavin's birth --
Janet Arvizo: That is Gavin's birth date.
Mr. Zonen: Does it indicate where the new address is going to be for this child, for this student?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. It says -- “City” is “Phoenix”. The state is “Arizona”.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Is this in your handwriting at all?
Janet Arvizo: Not in my writing at all.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever see this document?
Janet Arvizo: I've never seen this document before.
Mr. Zonen: All right. You -- before today or before the grand jury?
Janet Arvizo: Before -- I think it was the grand jury. I think that time. Or before --
Mr. Zonen: But at the time all this was happening --
Janet Arvizo: At that time, no.
Mr. Zonen: Back on March 6th, 2003 --
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: -- did you ever see that document?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Now, did anybody talk to you about moving to Arizona, to Phoenix?
Janet Arvizo: No. Except in that letter, the one -- the letter with the “Phoenix, Arizona”, that you showed me.
Mr. Zonen: Oh, all right.
Janet Arvizo: That one.
Mr. Zonen: But conversations?
Janet Arvizo: Conversation, no.
Mr. Zonen: Nobody had a conversation with you at Neverland about you moving to Phoenix, Arizona?
Janet Arvizo: No, no. Zero.
Mr. Zonen: Did either Vinnie or Frank mention Phoenix, Arizona, to you?
Janet Arvizo: No. Zero.
Mr. Zonen: Did either of them indicate where they wrote on these checkout forms where they were moving you to?
Janet Arvizo: It says right here, “New address”.
Mr. Zonen: But in conversations that you may have had with Vinnie and Frank at the time?
Janet Arvizo: No, no, it was Brazil.
Mr. Zonen: This is B. Let's go to C, if we can, right here. Mark that one “C”.
Janet Arvizo: This is what I'm talking about.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Would you take a look a moment at that document?
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Have you ever seen that document before?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, this is the one with --
Mr. Zonen: Is your signature on that?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, this one has my signature.
Mr. Zonen: And read that document.
Janet Arvizo: It says, “I, Janet Arvizo, allow Vincent Armenta to check out my son Gavin Anton Arvizo from John Burroughs” -- I mean, “from Burroughs Middle School. He will be placed in another school district in Phoenix, Arizona, where a current new residence is being sought”.
Mr. Zonen: That is your signature?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it is.
Mr. Zonen: And written -- typed below is the name “Janet Arvizo”?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Is this the letter you're referring to?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, this is what I was talking about.
Mr. Zonen: Now, at the time that you signed that, did you talk to them about, “What's the business with Phoenix, Arizona?”
Janet Arvizo: And they said this way nobody would be able to find me or the kids.
Mr. Zonen: This is C. Let's go to D, please.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead and write “D” on that. What is “D”?
Janet Arvizo: “D” is my driver's license. Oh, that's another thing they had.
Mr. Zonen: Just tell us what it is right now.
Janet Arvizo: My driver's license.
Mr. Zonen: And who else?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie's driver's license.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time did somebody tell you that they needed a copy of your driver's license?
Janet Arvizo: No, they took my driver's license.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Who is “they”?
Janet Arvizo: Frank and Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: Well, did both of them take it?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes. Frank was present when Vinnie took it. So --
Mr. Zonen: Tell me what you mean by “took it”. What did they do?
Janet Arvizo: They said, “Let me have your driver's license”.
Mr. Zonen: And did you hand it over to them?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did. At that point I was doing everything they said.
Mr. Zonen: Was it about this time that you did that?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Oh, I'm sorry. I'll do that.
Mr. Zonen: Exhibit No. 272. At this time No. 272. Would you tell us what that is, please?
Janet Arvizo: It's “John Burroughs Middle School Checkout Sheet”.
Mr. Zonen: That's for who?
Janet Arvizo: For my son Star.
Mr. Zonen: Is this the same form as the one that we had previously looked at for Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. And it says, “Star David Arvizo”.
Mr. Zonen: His full name is on there?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, his full name is on there.
Mr. Zonen: This one also states you're going to Phoenix, Arizona?
Janet Arvizo: This one also states I'm going to Phoenix, Arizona.
Mr. Zonen: Put an “A” on that. So that's 272-A. And we'll turn it over.
Janet Arvizo: And the parent's signature is not mine.
Mr. Zonen: There is a spot for parent's signature?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And whose signature is that?
Janet Arvizo: It's not mine. It's Vinnie's.
Mr. Zonen: Did he sign his own name?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, he did. And it says, “Date of birth: 12-11-1990”.
Mr. Zonen: Is that, in fact, Star's birthday?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it is.
Mr. Zonen: And Vinnie, I'm assuming, is not his parent?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it's -- oh.
Mr. Zonen: This is A. This is B.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Right here. Mark “B” on that, please. And that document, is that the same document; however, the letter, that's signed by you, except this one is for Star?
Janet Arvizo: Exact -- exactly.
Mr. Zonen: And that is, in fact, your signature?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it is my signature.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, I would like to move into evidence Exhibit -- Exhibit No. 276, which would be A and B, which is the envelope as well as the letter dealing with the landlord. And I would so move at this time.
Mr. Mesereau: No foundation.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry, the Court's ruling?
The Court: It is admitted.
Mr. Zonen: All right. I would also move to introduce into evidence 271, as to B, C, D, and 272-A and B.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Zonen: May I publish a few of these documents at this time?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Let's start with 271-B and C.
Mr. Auchincloss: May we have “Input 4”, Your Honor?
Mr. Zonen: Now, this is the “John Burroughs Middle School Checkout Sheet”; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And who's “the student”?
Janet Arvizo: “The student” is Gavin Anton Arvizo.
Mr. Zonen: And the printing on that -- the handwritten printing on that, is that yours?
Janet Arvizo: No, it isn't.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Was this filled out in your presence?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: And again, this is a document you did not see until a court proceeding in Santa Barbara?
Janet Arvizo: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: “Parent's signature”, that's Vinnie's?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And the date of birth; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And this is the document that indicates “Phoenix, Arizona”?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Let's go to the next one, please. Exhibit C from that same exhibit, is this the letter, then?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And that is your signature?
Janet Arvizo: It is my signature.
Mr. Zonen: And then 276-B on the front side -- what happened to our laser? Put it on so both signatures are on there. And then the second down here, where it says “Janet Arvizo”, is that your signature?
Janet Arvizo: No, it isn't.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Do you know if that is Yolanda Lozalde's signature?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it is.
Mr. Zonen: And then turn it over. This is the second letter that you identified. And that signature here, is that your signature?
Janet Arvizo: No, it isn't.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. You can turn on the lights.
Mr. Zonen: I'd like to move you ahead to the 10th of March, if I may.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: You told us that you had a preexisting schedule requiring a visit again back at Kaiser Hospital; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And what exactly was it that Gavin had to do in preparation for that visit?
Janet Arvizo: He had to -- okay, well, actually the creatinine clearance, Mr. Zonen, had to be turned in immediately. The creatinine clearance, that had to be turned in immediately after the doctor's visit, which was way back in February, February 25th.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection, Your Honor. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
The Court: Sustained. Stricken.
Mr. Zonen: I want to be very specific about the questions that I ask --
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: -- and the answers that you give.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: The purpose of the visit on the 10th of March was for what?
Janet Arvizo: Just to check his kidney.
Mr. Zonen: And was there a requirement that he had to furnish a urine sample?
Janet Arvizo: That was required since February 25th.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And why --
Janet Arvizo: I had to do that the next day.
Mr. Zonen: Why didn't you do it on February 25th?
Janet Arvizo: Because they didn't let me. They didn't want me to go back to Kaiser to turn it in.
Mr. Zonen: Did he have an examination that had to take place on the 10th as well?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And the examination was to do what?
Janet Arvizo: Was to check his kidney.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did they, in fact, do that at that time?
Mr. Mesereau: Object to the word “they”. Move to strike.
The Court: Sustained. Stricken.
Mr. Zonen: Did he have an examination of some kind at Kaiser Hospital on the 10th?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And what was the examination that he had?
Janet Arvizo: To check the inside of his kidney.
Mr. Zonen: Were you present during that exam?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And did that exam take place?
Janet Arvizo: And so was Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: And that exam took place?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Now, the creatinine clearance, tell us what that is, please.
Janet Arvizo: The creatinine clearance is a 24-hour urine collection to check on Gavin's kidney.
Mr. Zonen: And was there some piece of equipment that he had to have to collect it in?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. It's a big, giant jug that -- it's made to collect urine.
Mr. Zonen: Now, I'm told that this is not a used exhibit.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: And this is No. 349. Can you tell us if this Exhibit No. 349 is similar or dissimilar --
Janet Arvizo: It's similar, but it's not it.
Mr. Zonen: It's not the same?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us how that is different from the one that you had.
Janet Arvizo: Okay. It doesn't have this, this thing, at all. It's just completely closed.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Is the configur -- and the thing that you're saying, “this thing” --
Janet Arvizo: The cap. The cap.
Mr. Zonen: The cap is different on it?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, the cap on the one that you had, did it close in the same fashion?
Janet Arvizo: It closed. It's completely closed, sealed.
Mr. Zonen: So there wasn't a part that you could open up?
Janet Arvizo: There is no part that you can open up like that.
Mr. Zonen: On the one that you had, did it twist closed?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: In the same fashion?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was it --
Janet Arvizo: It's similar, the bottle, though.
Mr. Zonen: The bottle and the size was similar?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: The cap on the one that you had, did it close to the same extent?
Janet Arvizo: Completely sealed, because --
Mr. Zonen: You need to wait until the question is asked in its entirety.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: The top, did it seal closed to the same extent that this one does?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: So it twisted closed?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. The one that you had, was it as secure as the one that this is?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. All right. Now, was the color the same?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, just about.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Where did you get that particular container, the one that --
Janet Arvizo: At Kaiser at the laboratory.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Was that on the 25th?
Janet Arvizo: That was on the 25th. And I was supposed to do that --
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a specific time schedule for returning it?
Janet Arvizo: Immediately.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And it wasn't done until the 10th?
Janet Arvizo: It wasn't done.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Whose idea was it to do it around the time of the 10th?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead and answer.
Janet Arvizo: Every time -- I had done these creatinine clearance already for years, since the year 2000.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Again, you need to listen to the question.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Whose idea was it to do it the 10th, you or somebody else?
Janet Arvizo: I had kept having Gavin do the urine clearance, and every time there was an excuse why it couldn't get turned in. It was lost; it was -- the urine wasn't continued --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
Janet Arvizo: That's my answer.
Mr. Zonen: No, you need to listen to the question.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Who decided to do it on the 10th?
Janet Arvizo: I did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. That was the question.
Janet Arvizo: But there was many times before --
Mr. Zonen: Hold on.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike as nonresponsive.
Mr. Zonen: Hold on. We'll take care of it.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: You need to listen to the question being asked. Did you then give this container to Gavin to do this urine collection?
Janet Arvizo: It had been given to him since the 25th.
Mr. Zonen: So he had it in his possession?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you have a conversation with Gavin about him collecting his urine?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: At about that time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was it at least 24 hours prior to your going back to Los Angeles?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it had to be.
Mr. Zonen: Did you talk with him about collecting the urine during that time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. From the doctors.
Mr. Zonen: Yes. And, now, this is something he had done previously; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. For years already.
Mr. Zonen: Now, to your understanding, did he begin collecting his urine?
Janet Arvizo: He started collecting it from -- from like -- I think it was from the 2nd on, when we returned to Neverland. Because from the 25th to the 2nd when we were in the hotel, Frank had taken them away from us, because we weren't going to go to the doctors anymore.
Mr. Zonen: I didn't understand that. Frank actually took one of these containers away?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, he took it away from Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: At the hotel?
Janet Arvizo: At the motel.
Mr. Zonen: You had one of these at the hotel?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a conversation with Gavin at Neverland about turning in this urine?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't. I had told Vinnie and Vinnie had told Gavin. It was like I said; no more contact with my children from when we returned to --
Mr. Zonen: At some time prior to your going back to Los Angeles, did Gavin call you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. On March 10th.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did he say something to you concerning the urine?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What --
Janet Arvizo: It was about 4 a.m.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive and hearsay.
The Court: I'll strike after, “Yes”.
Mr. Zonen: What did he tell you about his urine sample?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: It would be a spontaneous declaration and an excitable utterance.
Mr. Mesereau: No foundation.
Mr. Zonen: It also explains the conduct of the parties thereafter.
The Court: I'll overrule the objection.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What did he say to you about the urine sample?
Janet Arvizo: He called me about 4 a.m., and -- he had phoned into the guesthouse, into the room I was. And he had told me, “Mommy, we need to reschedule”, because this was the end --
Mr. Zonen: Just tell us what he said.
Janet Arvizo: Okay. Every time I wanted to do a creatinine clearance, they would always say no. Finally, I was using this appointment --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
Mr. Zonen: You need to tell us -- the question specifically is, what did Gavin tell you?
Janet Arvizo: Gavin had called me about 4 a.m., and he had told me that Michael was scared because he had drank some Jesus Juice; that it was going to be detected in his urine. And that's when I told him, “Baby, what do you mean”.
The Court: Wait, stop. He just asked what Gavin said.
Janet Arvizo: Oh, okay.
The Court: Just stop.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know what “Jesus Juice” was?
Janet Arvizo: I had asked what “Jesus Juice” was.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you what “Jesus Juice” was?
Janet Arvizo: Wine.
Mr. Zonen: Was this the first time you knew that he had been --
Janet Arvizo: This is the first time.
Mr. Zonen: You need to listen to the question. Was this the first time you had learned that Gavin was drinking alcohol?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: When did you leave to go to the hospital?
Janet Arvizo: From 4 a.m., I didn't sleep anymore. It was -- I tried to get them up about 6:00. Nobody could find Gavin, so we left there in the morning.
Mr. Zonen: What do you mean, “Nobody could find Gavin”?
Janet Arvizo: They couldn't find Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: Did --
Janet Arvizo: The security people. And they said that, “They're with Michael”, and that was it; that they needed Jesus's help to locate Michael with the boys.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, how did you find Gavin that morning? How were you able to find Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: Well, finally Jesus brought him over.
Mr. Zonen: At what time was that?
Janet Arvizo: That was -- I don't know. I don't know. We were supposed to leave Neverland at 7:00, and I know we didn't because --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
Janet Arvizo: I can't -- so it had to be after 7:00, because we didn't leave at --
The Court: Just a moment.
Janet Arvizo: Okay. Yes, sir.
The Court: I'll strike that. Ask the question again.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know what time it was you left Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: No. It was after 7:00, my best estimate.
Mr. Zonen: Were you up from four o'clock in the morning?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was Gavin with you when you left?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. And so was Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have the container of urine with you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Who was holding on to the container?
Janet Arvizo: Gavin handed it to me.
Mr. Zonen: So you were holding on to it during the drive?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Oh, yes, I was.
Mr. Zonen: Where were you sitting in the car?
Janet Arvizo: I was sitting in the front of the car, in the front seat, and Gavin handed it to me.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you hold on to it for the length of the drive?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Where was Gavin sitting?
Janet Arvizo: Gavin was laid out, passed out in the back seat.
Mr. Zonen: He was asleep?
Janet Arvizo: In deep sleep.
Mr. Zonen: And was it Vinnie who was driving?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. It was Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: Anybody else in the car?
Janet Arvizo: No. Just me, Vinnie, and -- me, Vinnie and Gavin, and -- and those people.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, did you stop on your way to the hospital?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Why did you stop?
Janet Arvizo: I -- I had to go -- I had to use the rest room really bad, because I had been drinking the whole entire time to keep me up, so I wouldn't fall back to sleep.
Mr. Zonen: Drinking what?
Janet Arvizo: I kept drinking coffee.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. You had to use the rest room?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Where did you stop?
Janet Arvizo: I stopped at Denny's, and I tried to hold it so much.
Mr. Zonen: Did you -- do you know where it was that you stopped?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: The location?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how long you were in the car at the time that you stopped to use the rest room?
Janet Arvizo: I don't know. My best estimate, maybe halfway.
Mr. Zonen: Did you then go into the restaurant?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I went into Denny's.
Mr. Zonen: When you came back out, where was the car?
Janet Arvizo: Gone.
Mr. Zonen: How long did you wait for the car to return?
Janet Arvizo: Maybe about -- maybe about not more than five minutes. It was just minutes.
Mr. Zonen: Was Gavin still asleep in the back?
Janet Arvizo: He was asleep.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And did you talk to Vinnie about where he had been?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah. I asked him, “Where did you go?” He says, “Oh, I went driving around”. I'm thinking, “We've just been driving for a long time. Why would you need to drive any more?”
Mr. Zonen: Did you get back in the car and proceed to the hospital?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you notice the urine sample at that time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What did you notice about the urine sample?
Janet Arvizo: I noticed that the bag had been moved a little bit, okay?
Mr. Zonen: It was in a bag?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, in a paper bag, okay? So then I said, “Okay”, so then I picked it up. And when I picked it up -- when it had urine, it's heavy. And it was light. And there was only -- do I continue?
Mr. Zonen: You --
Janet Arvizo: There was only this much urine in it.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you ask Vinnie -- was the top sealed back on?
Janet Arvizo: It was sealed back on and it was like a little bit wet.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Janet Arvizo: And it wasn't closed tight, though, because when Gavin had handed it to me, it's customarily that I always check the cap.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Move to strike; nonresponsive.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Zonen: When you noticed that the container was missing, did you say anything to Vinnie?
Janet Arvizo: The container wasn't missing. It was --
Mr. Zonen: The content of the container was substantially less than before; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. I asked him -- it was only this much in there.
Mr. Zonen: How much had been in there up to that time?
Janet Arvizo: Almost this way.
Mr. Zonen: And by “this way”, you mean about 90 --
Janet Arvizo: About this full.
Mr. Zonen: About 90 percent full?
Janet Arvizo: About this full. And then there was this much after I went to Denny's.
Mr. Zonen: Maybe 10 percent full?
Janet Arvizo: About this much.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: I don't know percent.
Mr. Zonen: That's okay. All right. Did you ask him what happened?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. I said, “What happened?”
Mr. Zonen: What did he say?
Janet Arvizo: And he didn't answer me. And then he just commented, “Oh, it must have fallen”.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
Janet Arvizo: He said -- he commented -- because he didn't answer me. And then he said, “It must have fallen”. And that's it. I knew at that point, zip the lip.
Mr. Zonen: All right. But were you able to tell --
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike; nonresponsive.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Zonen: Were you able to tell whether urine had spilled into the car or not?
Janet Arvizo: There was no urine odor, wasn't wet, nothing like that.
Mr. Zonen: You weren't able to see any evidence that urine spilled inside --
Janet Arvizo: That's right.
Mr. Zonen: Listen to the question in its entirety. You weren't able to see any evidence of urine having been spilled anywhere inside the car?
Janet Arvizo: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ask Vinnie to explain how it happened?
Janet Arvizo: I asked him what happened. He didn't answer. But afterwards he had commented.
Mr. Zonen: What did he comment to you about?
Janet Arvizo: “It must have fallen”.
Mr. Zonen: Did you continue on to Kaiser Hospital?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did. And I stood quiet.
Mr. Zonen: And did Gavin, in fact, have the test that he was supposed to have at that time?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
Mr. Zonen: I'll withdraw the question.
Mr. Zonen: Did Gavin go into the hospital --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- with you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was Vinnie there?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was the urine sample turned in?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah. I turned it in and --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
Mr. Zonen: The question is, was it turned in, and she said yes.
The Court: The objection is overruled.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Where did you turn it in?
Janet Arvizo: In to the laboratory.
Mr. Zonen: Did you talk with anybody there about the content of the bottle?
Janet Arvizo: They said --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: The question is, did you --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Yes or no? Okay. And did you at that time turn it in?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Prior to your leaving the car to go to the rest room, how tight was the top of that container --
Janet Arvizo: It was --
Mr. Zonen: Wait till the question is answered (sic).
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: How tight was the top of the container screwed onto the container?
Janet Arvizo: It was tight.
Mr. Zonen: Was that your habit and custom each time?
Janet Arvizo: It was a habit and custom, because I always had to travel with the urine on a bus, so --
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how long you were at the hospital, Kaiser Hospital, with Vinnie and with Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: Well, when I went to go try to turn that in to the laboratory, and then we went to the appointment, which was in a different building.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And after you left that building, where did you go?
Janet Arvizo: Then I went to the apartment.
Mr. Zonen: You went to whose apartment?
Janet Arvizo: Jay's apartment.
Mr. Zonen: Was Jay there?
Janet Arvizo: Jay was not there.
Mr. Zonen: Was Vinnie with you?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie was with me.
Mr. Zonen: Was Gavin with you?
Janet Arvizo: Gavin was with me. But they didn't go into the apartment.
Mr. Zonen: How long did you stay at the apartment?
Janet Arvizo: Long enough to ask Jay to meet me at the nail shop.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you call Jay from the nail shop or from the apartment?
Janet Arvizo: I called him from the apartment and told him to -- you know, because since they're monitoring my phone calls, like I told you how I would speak to people. And then I told him, “Oh, why don't you meet me in” -- “at the nail shop”.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you then go to the nail shop?
Janet Arvizo: I did go to the nail shop.
Mr. Zonen: Was he there when you got there?
Janet Arvizo: No, he wasn't there.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have whatever they do at a nail shop done?
Janet Arvizo: No. I had used the -- their phone. I had waited for Vinnie to cross the street, and that's when I did it.
Mr. Zonen: What do they do, manicures at a nail shop?
Janet Arvizo: They do manicuring and waxing there.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any of that done?
Janet Arvizo: I had done only a leg wax.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a manicure?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Where was Vinnie while you were having a leg wax done?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. He had came in --
Mr. Zonen: No, no. Where was Vinnie when you were doing --
Janet Arvizo: Me, Vinnie and Gavin, when we originally arrived at the nail shop, we were all three together.
Mr. Zonen: And while you were having this procedure --
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: -- where was he?
Janet Arvizo: First Vinnie checked the area out. And then I told her, “I came here for a leg wax”.
Mr. Zonen: While you were having the leg wax, where was Vinnie?
Janet Arvizo: Then he saw that I was going to do the leg wax, and then that's when he walked across the street.
Mr. Zonen: So he left?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Where was Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: With him.
Mr. Zonen: He was with him?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did Jay eventually arrive?
Janet Arvizo: That's when I called Jay to come.
Mr. Zonen: So you called him a second time --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- from the beauty salon?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And did he, in fact, come?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, he did.
Mr. Zonen: Now, did you go back with Vinnie?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, did Vinnie come back and see Jay?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: What happened?
Janet Arvizo: He turned red.
Mr. Zonen: Vinnie did?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did Vinnie say something to Jay or to you?
Janet Arvizo: He said, “Okay. Let's go now, Janet”.
Mr. Zonen: What did you say in response to that?
Janet Arvizo: I told him that I kind of wanted to stay since I had a Family Court appointment the next day. And so I told -- I used that as a reason why I could stay, me -- me and Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you want to stay with Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Your other two children were still at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. But I had to do everything as if -- not to raise suspicion.
Mr. Zonen: Did you say something to Vinnie specifically that you were not going back?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What did he say?
Janet Arvizo: “No. That's not part of the plan”.
Mr. Zonen: Now, was Gavin standing there at the time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: How was Gavin behaving?
Janet Arvizo: At that time he's just -- he's just observing.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Janet Arvizo: It's until he talks to Frank that he gets -- he becomes distressed.
Mr. Zonen: Are you aware as to whether or not Vinnie got on the phone with anyone?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, he did. He goes, “I got to call Frank”.
Mr. Zonen: And did he, in fact, call Frank?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, he did.
Mr. Zonen: Did he have a conversation with Frank in your presence?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, he did.
Mr. Zonen: Were you able to hear what he was saying to Frank?
Janet Arvizo: No, but Gavin got on the phone calls.
Mr. Zonen: You noticed that Gavin was on the phone as well?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, because Vinnie wanted to talk to Frank -- to Gavin. Frank wanted to talk to Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: Was Jay Jackson there during this conversation?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was Jay Jackson in uniform?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And what kind of a uniform does he wear during the day?
Janet Arvizo: His military uniform. A camouflage.
Mr. Zonen: Camouflage. That's his daily uniform; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. That's his work uniform.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, was it decided who was going to go back to Neverland and who was going to stay?
Janet Arvizo: Jay got upset that Frank -- that Vinnie had said no. So then Jay starts -- he starts becoming a little bit -- I don't know if “confrontational” is a correct word. I don't know. But a little -- you can see that he's upset. So I -- and then that's when Frank -- another time he goes out right there, right outside the nail shop door. And then that's when I tell Jay, I said, “Please, Jay, please, Davellin and Star are there. Just play along. Just play along”.
Mr. Zonen: So who went back to Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie and Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: Why did you agree for Gavin to go back to Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Well, because. When Vinnie came back, I said, “Vinnie, Vinnie, I just want to spend some time alone with Jay. You know, that kind of stuff. That's all. You know, we'll” -- “We'll see each other back in” -- “in the Family Court”. You know, you just bring all my kids, and I'll go back. I just kind of want to spend some of that kind of time, quality time, with Jay”. So then when -- when he saw me behave that way, then he says, “Okay”. He agreed to that.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Family Court?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Tell us about Family Court. Did you have an appearance in Family Court?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, yes.
Mr. Zonen: And when was that appearance scheduled for?
Janet Arvizo: It was the next day.
Mr. Zonen: And had you already told them about that --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- the Family Court appearance?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Who is it that you told about the Family Court appearance?
Janet Arvizo: Frank and Vinnie knew.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know whether or not your children had to be at that appearance at Family Court?
Janet Arvizo: I knew that they didn't have to be there. But again, it's like that orthodontist visit. I had said they had to be there.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
The Court: I'll strike after, “I knew they didn't have to be there”.
Mr. Zonen: The question was whether you knew whether or not the kids had to be there. And the answer was you knew?
Janet Arvizo: I knew they didn't have to be there.
Mr. Zonen: They didn't have to be there. Did you tell Frank or Vinnie --
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't tell them that. I told them that they had to be there.
Mr. Zonen: And who was it you told, Frank or Vinnie or both?
Janet Arvizo: Both.
Mr. Zonen: What was the purpose of the Family Court session on the 11th?
Janet Arvizo: Because I was finally going to be awarded support.
Mr. Zonen: All right. It was a spousal support, or a child support --
Janet Arvizo: Spousal support, child support, all that.
Mr. Zonen: Were you represented by an attorney during that time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I was.
Mr. Zonen: Who was the attorney?
Janet Arvizo: Michael Manning.
Mr. Zonen: Family law lawyer?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. That I've had for years, already years.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did Vinnie represent that he would or would not bring the children back for this appearance?
Janet Arvizo: He said he will bring all three of my kids back.
Mr. Zonen: Did you spend the night in Los Angeles?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: The next day was the Family Court appearance?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. And now I've told Jay everything that night.
Mr. Zonen: So you had a complete conversation?
Janet Arvizo: Told him everything.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, did you have an understanding with Vinnie as to how you would get to the Family Court appearance the next day?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. The condition --
Mr. Zonen: Yes or no.
Janet Arvizo: Oh. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. You're doing better.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, at what time was that appearance?
Janet Arvizo: The appearance, I don't remember, but maybe 8:00 or --
Mr. Zonen: It was a morning appearance?
Janet Arvizo: It was a morning.
Mr. Zonen: How were you going to get to the court appearance?
Janet Arvizo: The condition was Vinnie was going to pick me up and take me there.
Mr. Zonen: And the kids?
Janet Arvizo: With him.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did Vinnie arrive the next morning?
Janet Arvizo: He did. He went all the way to Neverland and arrived early that morning.
Mr. Zonen: All right. When he arrived, did he have the kids with him?
Janet Arvizo: He had no kids with him.
Mr. Zonen: Did he explain to you why the kids weren't there?
Janet Arvizo: He said I had to go back.
Mr. Zonen: He said you had to go back?
Janet Arvizo: I had to go back.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you go to the Family Court appearance with Vinnie?
Janet Arvizo: I did.
Mr. Zonen: And at the conclusion of the Family Court appearance, where did you go?
Janet Arvizo: I went back to -- I went back to Jay's.
Mr. Zonen: Did he take you back to Jay's?
Janet Arvizo: He took me back to Jay's.
Mr. Zonen: You did not go back to Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: I didn't go back to Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever go back to Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: I never went back to Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: Now, this is now the 11th of March; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it is.
Mr. Zonen: Did you engage in some effort at this point to get your kids delivered to Los Angeles?
Janet Arvizo: I did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What was this effort? What did you do?
Janet Arvizo: When Jay came home, we called Karen Walker, the supervisor of the -- I don't know. CPS, DCFS, that. And I and Jay both talked to her, and she said, “It's out of my hands. It's out of my hands. Go get yourself some legal help. I'm sorry, I can't help you”. That's what she said.
Mr. Zonen: Was Karen --
Janet Arvizo: Karen Walker said that.
Mr. Zonen: Hold on. Was Karen Walker one of the three that had been to Jay's --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Listen to the whole question. Was Karen Walker one of the three workers who had been to Jay's apartment on the day of that interview on the 20th?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Now, after you called Karen Walker, what did you then do?
Janet Arvizo: She didn't help us, me or Jay. We both talked to them, and so we were trying to find a way where we can go get the kids where they wouldn't do anything before we got the kids.
Mr. Zonen: What did you decide to do?
Janet Arvizo: For my parents to play sick. My -- specifically my dad.
Mr. Zonen: So did you have one of your parents call Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. When Jay returned to work, he called from his work, because now he's aware that our phone calls are being monitored.
Mr. Zonen: So he called from work to whom?
Janet Arvizo: To my parents.
Mr. Zonen: And talked with who, your father?
Janet Arvizo: With my dad, and -- well, my dad and mom, but my mom speaks only Spanish, so my dad told my mom.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And in that process communicated to them this plan?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Now, were the kids at some point in time then delivered to your parents' house?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I negotiated for my kids. I told them I would give them myself in exchange for my parents being able to see my children.
Mr. Zonen: Who did you talk to?
Janet Arvizo: To Frank.
Mr. Zonen: And did you tell him that; that you would --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- go back to Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I negotiated for one hour. One hour. And I got two. And then I got a day. And then I finally got two days.
Mr. Zonen: All right. So by the time you got off the phone with Frank, it was understood that your kids would visit for how long?
Janet Arvizo: For two days.
Mr. Zonen: And that was a conversation that you had with Frank?
Janet Arvizo: With Frank.
Mr. Zonen: And you were placing that phone call to Frank, or he called you? Which?
Janet Arvizo: Let me see. I had originally -- as Jay's calling my parents, I'm calling Frank. And I'm letting him know.
Mr. Zonen: So you called Frank?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And you called from which telephone?
Janet Arvizo: From Jay's apartment.
Mr. Zonen: And you called Frank on the number that you had for him?
Janet Arvizo: I think -- I don't know whether it was his number or Neverland number, but on the other line was Frank, on the other end of the line.
Mr. Zonen: Were your kids, in fact, delivered to your parents?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was it that day or the next day?
Janet Arvizo: That day.
Mr. Zonen: Were you present at the time --
Janet Arvizo: And I was made aware that our every step is being watched.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Move to strike; nonresponsive.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Zonen: Were you there at the time your kids were delivered to your parents' house?
Janet Arvizo: No, I was --
Mr. Zonen: Do you know what time it was that you finally saw your kids?
Janet Arvizo: In the evening.
Mr. Zonen: Did you go with Jay?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. At the time you got to your parents' house, who is present? Who was there?
Janet Arvizo: My mom and dad and my three children.
Mr. Zonen: How were your children behaving at that time? Let me be more specific. How was Gavin behaving at the time you got there?
Janet Arvizo: They were not my kids anymore.
Mr. Zonen: Well, describe Gavin's behavior specifically, how he was behaving.
Janet Arvizo: He didn't want to talk to Jay.
Mr. Zonen: We're talking about Gavin right now.
Janet Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Describe Gavin's behavior specifically.
Janet Arvizo: Angry, violent. Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell him that he was not going back to Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And you say “angry” and “violent”. What do you mean? Describe what he was doing or what he was saying.
Janet Arvizo: Just hollering, telling me that -- yelling at me at the top of his lungs that Michael loves him, and that he had to go back.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Were you the one telling him he wasn't going back?
Janet Arvizo: That's right.
Mr. Zonen: How long did his behavior continue that way?
Janet Arvizo: For hours.
Mr. Zonen: How long was it before his behavior was back to normal?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence; no foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: You can answer the question.
Janet Arvizo: It took a long time.
Mr. Zonen: And what is that, “a long time”? Give me a sense of it.
Janet Arvizo: I can't.
Mr. Zonen: Are we talking about days or weeks or months?
Janet Arvizo: It took weeks.
Mr. Zonen: Weeks? When did you tell either Frank or Vinnie that none of you were going back to Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Excuse me. I didn't call Frank or Vinnie. We contacted Jesus the very next day.
Mr. Zonen: You contacted Jesus?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell him?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What happened after you told Jesus?
Janet Arvizo: And we weren't coming back. And the only reason we contacted Jesus was because when the children were leaving, Frank had taken away all of the new clothes that they had purchased, plus some of my children's clothing also in the -- in the removing the new clothes, because Frank had told them that they had to come back if they wanted their new clothes.
Mr. Zonen: When they came to your mother's house, do you know if they actually had anything with them when they came?
Janet Arvizo: Gavin wasn't allowed to bring nothing. Zero.
Mr. Zonen: And how about the other two?
Janet Arvizo: The other two did bring their luggages and my bag with them.
Mr. Zonen: Did you start receiving telephone calls or visits?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Janet Arvizo: Immediately.
Mr. Zonen: And in terms of visits, who was it who came to the house?
Janet Arvizo: It wasn't visiting. It was -- it was following us in a very, very visual way. Knocks. Throwing rocks. Following us. Very -- they weren't hiding about it. They were in-my-face type of attitude.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know --
Janet Arvizo: To come back.
Mr. Zonen: Are we talking about people who now are new, people-you-hadn't-seen people, or --
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Wait till the question is answered (sic).
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Are you talking about people you hadn't seen before or people that you were familiar with?
Janet Arvizo: People that I hadn't seen before. And also, in addition to that, new ones.
Mr. Zonen: Among the people that you had seen before, tell us who they were.
Janet Arvizo: The people that I seen before was Johnny, Frank and Vinnie. And then some other people.
Mr. Zonen: You actually saw Frank and Vinnie at some location?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Where?
Janet Arvizo: At Jay's apartment. And I knew it, because I looked through the peephole.
Mr. Zonen: Did you stay at your parents' house?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you go to Jay's?
Janet Arvizo: Jay's.
Mr. Zonen: Did you stay anyplace but Jay's thereafter?
Janet Arvizo: Only Jay's. And I enrolled Davellin, because I believe in, you know --
Mr. Zonen: No, the question is whether you stayed at some other location.
Janet Arvizo: No, just Jay's.
Mr. Zonen: For what period of time did you stay at Jay's?
Janet Arvizo: From that point on, till now.
Mr. Zonen: Your Soto Street apartment was now vacated?
Janet Arvizo: Gone.
Mr. Zonen: You said that you saw Frank and Vinnie at Jay's. Did you actually talk to them?
Janet Arvizo: No. I didn't open the door.
Mr. Zonen: You saw them through the peephole?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Both of them together or on different occasions?
Janet Arvizo: Well, on this occasion they were both together.
Mr. Zonen: Were they saying anything to you?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah. “Open the door”. Just knocking.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Move to strike; vague.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know who it was who was talking to you through the door?
Janet Arvizo: Frank. I could see him through the -- I could see everything.
Mr. Zonen: Were you able to hear his voice?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: You could hear what he was saying?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And did you recognize his voice?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you engage either one of them in conversation through the door?
Janet Arvizo: No. Zero.
Mr. Zonen: Did you acknowledge to them that you were there?
Janet Arvizo: No. Didn't even want to let them know that I was there. But they knew. Because Frank was saying, “I know you're in there”.
Mr. Zonen: Were you receiving telephone calls as well?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Continuously?
Janet Arvizo: Continuously.
Mr. Zonen: Were you answering any of the calls?
Janet Arvizo: No. No more answering.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any conversation with Vinnie or Frank?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever see Johnny?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Where did you see Johnny?
Janet Arvizo: On my front door. And also there was one time when I was watching through the peephole, he had slipped a note through the side of Jay's apartment. Before -- before they had put this thing around there, it was open all the way around, and so he slipped a note through there. And I saw him writing it.
Mr. Zonen: May I approach the witness?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Exhibit No. 277, please, for identification, have you seen that exhibit before?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I have.
Mr. Zonen: Is that the note that you just described?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, this -- this is the note.
Mr. Zonen: And how do you know that it was Johnny who left that note?
Janet Arvizo: Because I'm looking at him while he's writing it. I'm looking at him as he's slipping it in.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And he left that note where?
Janet Arvizo: At Jay's apartment.
Mr. Zonen: And that's the note you then turned over to law enforcement?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Move to --
Janet Arvizo: I put it in --
Mr. Zonen: Move to admit that exhibit into evidence, please.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, may I publish that note, please?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Now, it appears there's something on the front and on the back; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What is the back part? I'm assuming that's the back. What does that say?
Janet Arvizo: It says, “To Star or Gavin”.
Mr. Zonen: And then on the front it says?
Janet Arvizo: It says, “Please call Frank, Vinnie, at emergency, 1-805-686-5466”. And it says “Now”, and it's underlined.
Mr. Zonen: The top part's in red. “Now” is in what color?
Janet Arvizo: Blue.
Mr. Zonen: And the back, “To Star or Gavin”, is?
Janet Arvizo: In black.
Mr. Zonen: Is that the front of the note that's 277, Exhibit 277? Miss Arvizo, is that, in fact, what we're looking at, the same thing?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And I'm going to turn it over at this time. And this is the part that says, “To Star or Gavin”?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Now, in response to that note, did you call either Star or Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: No. No.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry, did you -- did you call either Frank or Vinnie in response to that?
Janet Arvizo: No more. And then --
Mr. Zonen: Do you recall at this point you had any conversations with Frank or Vinnie?
Janet Arvizo: No more.
Mr. Zonen: For what period of time did this continue, the phone calls and things like that?
Janet Arvizo: It -- it went for months.
Mr. Zonen: You said at one point stones were thrown?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. At my mom's house.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever see who was doing that?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't. Davellin saw him.
Mr. Zonen: All right. But you were not present at the time it happened?
Janet Arvizo: No. It was my mom and Davellin present.
Mr. Zonen: Now, I think that you had also said that people were following you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: How did you become aware of the fact that people were following you?
Janet Arvizo: Because now they were in my face.
Mr. Zonen: And explain what that means.
Janet Arvizo: Meaning before, everything was being done a little bit -- a little bit secretly. And now it was -- I mean, it was more intimidating than it was before. That's the best I can say.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Move to strike; nonresponsive.
The Court: Overruled. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: Could you tell who it was who was following you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Johnny. And then some of those other people that I had told you I never came to know who they were. And this is the first time I also saw a female and -- because the rest were always male. And then --
Mr. Zonen: Did you recognize any of them, other than Johnny?
Janet Arvizo: Only Johnny. And then -- and then they were replaced by some other people.
Mr. Zonen: How were you aware of the fact that people were following you? I mean, what is it that you noticed specifically?
Janet Arvizo: Well, I'm in the lane, they change the lane. I'm in a lane, they change a lane. I get off, they get off. I go to my under -- Jay's underground parking, they're right there. When I'm -- when Gavin went to church, one of these -- there's -- there's -- I don't know what kind of camera, but it's kind of like this, right there. Just right there, showing me that they're doing it.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, at some point in time, were you actually shown video images of yourself and your family?
Janet Arvizo: Barely now. Just the other day. Mr. Zonen showed it to me.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you see other images at the time of the grand jury?
Janet Arvizo: No --
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: -- I didn't.
Mr. Zonen: You have no recollection of seeing other images?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Your Honor, Exhibit No. 813 is a DVD. I've consulted with counsel. We've agreed it can be played at this time. There's no sound, so there's no transcript.
Mr. Zonen: Now, you've had an opportunity to view these images in advance; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes, Mr. Zonen.
Mr. Zonen: And you have recognized the people in it; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
The Court: How long is it?
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
The Court: How long is it?
Mr. Zonen: Five minutes. Five, six minutes. About that, I think. If we can, let's go ahead.
Mr. Zonen: Excuse me one second. Part of this, as well, is of your apartment on Soto Street, is it not?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: There appears to be people moving your things out?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And that's at the very end of it?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Let me revise it. I think it's more like ten minutes.
The Court: Is this the PC, “No. 1”?
Mr. Auchincloss: It is, Your Honor.
The Court: You're ready?
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: We're ready. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, Plaintiff's Exhibit No. 813, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, they added the title to that. I didn't approve that. That's nothing we've seen before. Mr. Zonen added it. It's not part of the original, so we object to this.
Mr. Zonen: Well, I -- all right.
Mr. Mesereau: We object on foundation and authenticity and that it's been tampered with.
The Court: All right. The --
Mr. Zonen: I'd like to be heard on that issue.
The Court: You may, but -- maybe what we'll do --
Mr. Zonen: All right. There is --
The Court: I think we'll -- I think we'll excuse the jury, and let you discuss it with me. That way they'll get a little extra break here.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Are we back in session?
The Court: We are back in session. Mr. Mesereau.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: Maybe you want to -- can you move it back to the opening screen so we can look at what the objection was about?
Mr. Zonen: While he's doing it, I can explain what the understanding was that we had that preexisted the showing.
Mr. Auchincloss: It's up, Your Honor, if you go to “Input 1”.
The Court: This is what you were objecting to, Mr. Mesereau?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
Mr. Zonen: I explained --
The Court: Could I have Mr. Mesereau's objection, so I fully understand it?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor. This particular wording is not part of the original tape. It's been added by the prosecution. It was not disclosed to me. It was done to influence the jury. There's been no foundation laid that these are Brad Miller's surveillance tapes at all. The numbers have been added by them.
The Court: So, to be specific, what we're looking at is the “Brad Miller Surveillance Videotape, Item 811, 812, 816 and 815”, and that was not on the --
Mr. Mesereau: No, not --
The Court: -- not on the DVD that you saw?
Mr. Mesereau: Not that I have seen. They have laid no foundation to prove that Brad Miller arranged to have these tapes made. They have thrown different names around, Johnny and Asaf, et cetera. They have not ever proven who these people actually worked for. They haven't proven who did the surveillance. They haven't laid a foundation to where they found these tapes and whether or not they've been tampered with. There's no authenticity. There's no foundation. There's no logical connection, and they basically tampered with the tapes by adding these words.
The Court: Was there an agreement.
Mr. Mesereau: Not to have this. That's a surprise to me.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Zonen: Well, counsel knows that they're not tampered with at all. And furthermore, we had a discussion in advance of showing this where I explained to counsel that there were two witnesses who will subsequently lay a foundation. The first witness who will testify that these -- that this is a compilation of tapes that were -- it's -- it's put now onto one DVD that were, in fact, a compilation of tapes that were seized from - guess where? - Brad Miller's office. And the second witness will be the one who actually seized the tapes from Brad Miller's office. All right. Now, the content of the surveillance thereafter is identical. Nobody has touched anything on there, and counsel knows that. My --
Mr. Mesereau: I don't know that.
Mr. Zonen: I had asked him if it would be agreeable that we could show this in advance of the other two witnesses laying the foundation; one, that they were seized from Brad Miller's office; and number two, that they were compiled into one DVD for ease of showing at this time, and he agreed to that. My suggestion at this time is that you instruct the jury to disregard this frame on it, and we will commence the showing from the point where the car is in -- in session.
Mr. Mesereau: We object on foundational and authenticity, Your Honor. And we'd ask that the individual tapes be played, not their concoction.
Mr. Zonen: Well, you know, I had asked his permission and he gave it to me to do so.
Mr. Mesereau: To play videotapes.
Mr. Zonen: Wait a second. I am relying upon his representation of what he said he was agreeing for us to do.
The Court: Sounds like he thought you were going to play two separate --
Mr. Zonen: No, he didn't. I made it --
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, I did. Nowhere was this ever described to me.
Mr. Zonen: I made it very clear that we compiled it into one DVD. Now, this I did not say. This I didn't know was going to be shown.
The Court: What's the -- what's the compilation? Is it a serial, just the first one and then the second one?
Mr. Zonen: Yes; one right after the other.
The Court: You intermixed the two?
Mr. Zonen: We can show it to you right now. It only takes a couple minutes, if you'd like to see it.
The Court: I thought you said ten minutes.
Mr. Zonen: The bulk of it is the cleaning out of the apartment, which is one separate tape, but the initial surveillance is less than five minutes, of different segments of surveillance.
Mr. Mesereau: I might suggest, Your Honor, that the cleaning out of the apartment, as I understand it, was to show what was being moved in or out, and it's not a surveillance tape. That is their concoction.
Mr. Zonen: Once again, this was something counsel approved of.
Mr. Mesereau: No, I didn't.
Mr. Zonen: He's lying. That's simply not true.
Mr. Mesereau: He's lying.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Zonen: I'll take a polygraph.
Mr. Mesereau: You'll fail it.
The Court: Just a moment. I don't want to hear anything like that. You don't accuse each other of lying. There's a misunderstanding here. You've added something. And that's not professional conduct. I won't put up with that. Do you understand, Mr. Zonen?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
The Court: And you are not to respond to him. You two talk to me.
Mr. Mesereau: I apologize, Your Honor.
The Court: Now, I think what we'll do is, I will explain to the jury that the initial title of the tape was added by the District Attorney, and they're to disregard that; that this is a compilation of two separate videos, and that it's being entered with --
Mr. Zonen: Let me have just one moment, please. Let me have one moment.
Mr. Mesereau: If I may, Your Honor, it's four videos they're made to look like one. They're not one at all.
Mr. Zonen: Let me have just one moment.
The Court: All right. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Mesereau: If I may address the Court, Your Honor.
The Court: Wait till he's through with his conference.
Mr. Mesereau: Sure. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, we're going to play the original ones. We're going -- as soon as we get it. We will not play this one. We will do the originals. We don't have them here. We're going to make arrangements to get them as quickly as we can.
The Court: All right. I think I -- I think I find that to be an acceptable way to proceed. I do want to tell the jury, though, when they come back in that the initial title they saw was, in fact, added by you, and not part of the seized tapes. They were tapes, right?
Mr. Zonen: Yes. The original videotapes have been transposed to a DVD.
The Court: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Ron? Can I just have one moment?
The Court: Yes. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Zonen: The problem that we're dealing with at this moment is that all of the detectives are currently at a funeral, and I'm not sure that we're going to be able to get -- are we --
The Court: Let me tell you, what we'll do is, you know, we'll start our break now that we normally take at 1:15. So, the jury's already out, so we won't bring them back in. And we'll just start our break, and take a -- let's take a 20-minute break, and then you can decide how you're going to proceed on the break. What we do know is you're not going to --
Mr. Zonen: I will be not showing this one. I will show the originals.
The Court: And I do want to remember, when they come back in, to tell them to disregard the opening title. And -- okay? Any objection to that?
Mr. Mesereau: No, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Let's start our break, then.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you go to “Black Screen”, Your Honor? Thank you.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, we're going to withdraw this exhibit at this time and we're going to play it tomorrow morning.
The Court: (To the jury) All right. On the exhibit that we started to show you just before the break, there was a label, a heading on it, and the label was not part of the seized exhibit. It was added by the District Attorney as a title, and I'm going to instruct you to disregard that label and do not consider it in any way in your deliberations in the case. And you'll -- you will see the material but it will come in in a different form than it was going to come in today. All right. You may proceed.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION Resumed BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Miss Arvizo, by the time that you got back to El Monte and then back to your residence in Los Angeles, how long had the children been out of school?
Janet Arvizo: About less than two months. Less than.
Mr. Zonen: Did they have any instruction during that period of time at all?
Janet Arvizo: None. Zero.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have, during that period of time, a conversation with either Michael Jackson or Vinnie or Frank about them getting tutoring?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah. We had to go to Brazil if we wanted to get tutored.
Mr. Zonen: Who was that you had a conversation with?
Janet Arvizo: With Frank and Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: At different times or together?
Janet Arvizo: Different times, together.
Mr. Zonen: What did Frank tell you specifically about tutoring?
Janet Arvizo: That if I wanted a tutor for my children, that we had to leave the country and go to Brazil; that they could provide a tutor there. Everything was always Brazil.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Was there any mention by either Frank or Vinnie that a tutor had already been arranged in Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: I can't remember that.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did either one of them tell you where specifically in Brazil you were going to be going?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Where?
Janet Arvizo: In Brazil, it had to be in a place where there was no American hotels, no hotels, so no one could notice me and my children.
Mr. Zonen: Did they tell you whether any of them, meaning Frank or Vinnie, would be going with you to Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Frank and Vinnie and Brad Miller and Marc Schaffel had already prepared an apartment full of surveillance and everything there. This is what Frank and Vinnie told me.
Mr. Zonen: Did they tell you what city in Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: No. They did tell me that it was away from any hotel.
Mr. Zonen: Did they tell you what size city or community or town you would be going to?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did they tell you how long you would be there?
Janet Arvizo: Until they did damage control for Mr. Jackson. And I followed everything that they said. There may be a possibility that I could come back, depending on what I did.
Mr. Zonen: Did they actually tell you in terms of days or weeks or months?
Janet Arvizo: At this point, no. It was until they decided.
Mr. Zonen: Did they tell you whether or not Mr. Jackson would be joining you there in Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: No. Mr. Jackson would not be joining us there.
Mr. Zonen: Did either of them say that specifically?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Who?
Janet Arvizo: Frank and Vinnie. And remember, this is an evolution, different times --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; move to strike her comments.
The Court: I'll strike the last sentence.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recall when the conversation was specifically with Frank about whether or not Michael Jackson would be joining you there?
Janet Arvizo: That was towards the end. There was going to be just me and my kids, and -- in the apartment that Brad Miller, Marc Schaffel had prepared full of high-tech monitoring surveilling system, surveilling me and the kids, and --
Mr. Zonen: Did your two sons and Davellin enroll back in school again?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I enrolled them back in school.
Mr. Zonen: Which school did the boys enroll in?
Janet Arvizo: The boys re -- I reenrolled them back into John Burroughs.
Mr. Zonen: Did you continue living at the St. Andrews apartment?
Janet Arvizo: I now began living in the St. Andrews apartment.
Mr. Zonen: Full time?
Janet Arvizo: Full time in a one-bedroom apartment, now with Jay.
Mr. Zonen: Where did Davellin reenroll in?
Janet Arvizo: I enrolled her in a high school near my mom's out in El Monte.
Mr. Zonen: This is a different high school --
Janet Arvizo: Different high school.
Mr. Zonen: Hold on. Wait till the question is asked. This is a different high school than the one prior to going to Miami?
Janet Arvizo: That's correct, it's a different high school now.
Mr. Zonen: And which high school was it in El Monte?
Janet Arvizo: Now it's Mountain View High School.
Mr. Zonen: And did she live with your parents?
Janet Arvizo: Now my daughter began living with my parents.
Mr. Zonen: Where does she live now?
Janet Arvizo: My -- my daughter lives with us now.
Mr. Zonen: Were you able to get your possessions back?
Janet Arvizo: Until the police got involved.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know -- by “possessions”, I mean your possessions from the Soto Street address.
Janet Arvizo: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: What did you have at the Soto Street address at the time that it was moved from that location?
Janet Arvizo: All my stuff. All my stuff from my apartment.
Mr. Zonen: What do you mean by “stuff”?
Janet Arvizo: My furniture, the -- what was still there, because some -- some of these things got rid of.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Janet Arvizo: Our clothing. Our -- Let me see. What else?
Mr. Zonen: Did you have furniture?
Janet Arvizo: No. The only thing that they left in there was my kitchen table with my kitchen chairs.
Mr. Zonen: All right. But was there some understanding with either Frank or Vinnie or somebody else that your possessions would either be stored or moved?
Janet Arvizo: No. At this point it was a no. Remember I said I would think about it? And then I finally said no.
Mr. Zonen: When you finally got your possessions back, was what was returned to you everything that existed in the apartment?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: What was missing?
Janet Arvizo: What was missing was all of -- everything to do with Mr. Jackson. Everything.
Mr. Zonen: How about furnishings, furniture?
Janet Arvizo: My kitchen table, my chairs were returned back to me.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: My children's clothing, my clothing. My pictures that were hanging on my wall.
Mr. Zonen: Were returned?
Janet Arvizo: Were returned.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: And -- but all the stuff that Mr. Jackson had given Gavin were gone.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have kitchen appliances of sorts?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Pots and pans?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Silverware?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Plates?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Cups?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was that all returned?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Prior to going to Miami had you moved any of your possessions to Jay's apartment?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you seek help from anybody in an effort to get your property back?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Who?
Janet Arvizo: From Mr. Dickerman.
Mr. Zonen: Before contacting Mr. Dickerman, did you contact anybody from Neverland to --
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Wait till the whole question's asked.
Janet Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: Before contacting Mr. Dickerman, did you contact anybody from Neverland in an effort to get your property returned?
Janet Arvizo: No way.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any other conversations with anybody from Neverland after you left?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know where your possessions were?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Zonen: Did Mr. Dickerman write a number of letters on your behalf?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, he did.
Mr. Zonen: Did you read those letters?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Had you noted -- had you seen your passports prior -- well, you answered that you had seen them with Frank; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: No. Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry, with Vinnie.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Were your passports among the items that were requested to be returned?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And I assume they were not returned to you?
Janet Arvizo: They weren't. They weren't.
Mr. Zonen: Were there other personal items that were requested returned?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. The children's clothing. That's one of them.
Mr. Zonen: Was there something else that you wanted Mr. Dickerman to do on your behalf?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. For Michael's people to stop following us; that we did not want to go back. To get the message, “Please, leave us alone”.
Mr. Zonen: Was that communicated in the form of a letter as well?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it was.
Mr. Zonen: And do you know to whom those letters were sent?
Janet Arvizo: To Mr. Geragos.
Mr. Zonen: Mark Geragos?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if your children were still appearing on television in that production “Living with Michael Jackson”?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, they were.
Mr. Zonen: How do you know that?
Janet Arvizo: Because Mr. Dickerman had told me, Jamie had told me.
Mr. Zonen: Others were telling you --
Janet Arvizo: Others were telling us.
Mr. Zonen: -- that it was still being featured?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did Mr. Dickerman on your behalf attempt to get your children off television?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, he did.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time -- I'd like to move back one second, if I could. I believe that you had testified that the workers, the social workers from the Department of Child & Family Services, that interview was conducted on the 20th in the morning hours; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you see any of them the next day?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did. On the 21st I did.
Mr. Zonen: Who did you see on the 21st?
Janet Arvizo: I saw Karen Walker, the supervisor.
Mr. Zonen: What was the purpose of that meeting?
Janet Arvizo: She had called -- like I had mentioned before, all my phone calls was being monitored every day, 24 hours a day. Monitored, listened, surveilled, watched, followed. Everything. She had came -- she requested that I sign a paper that said I understood the language in English. Bilingual form.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Janet Arvizo: Over the phone. So I went ahead, I said, “Yes, please come”.
Mr. Zonen: And did you sign that document?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. She came, she met me outside. And I tried to run around on her driver's side to try to talk to her secretly, and at that time I'm being followed right here, and Vinnie's right here, so I was unable to communicate to her. So when I ran around this way, now Vinnie comes up and talks to her, and I'm trying to talk where -- behind him to her.
Mr. Zonen: Was she in her car at the time?
Janet Arvizo: She was in her car.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know what kind of a car she was driving?
Janet Arvizo: I can't remember.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know cars at all?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah, I do.
Mr. Zonen: Was it a sedan, or some other kind of car?
Janet Arvizo: No, no. It was kind of like a little -- kind of like a little -- I don't know if it's called a little SUV. I don't know. Kind of like a Range Rover type of thing.
Mr. Zonen: Did you communicate to her anything other than the fact you spoke both English and Spanish?
Janet Arvizo: No. But when Vinnie was talking to her, telling her that --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
The Court: I'll strike after, “No”.
Mr. Zonen: Did Vinnie say something to Karen Walker in your presence?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, he did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Where was Vinnie standing at the time?
Janet Arvizo: Right there on the passenger-side window, talking to her.
Mr. Zonen: And where were you?
Janet Arvizo: I was right here.
Mr. Zonen: I don't know where “here” is.
Janet Arvizo: Right behind him off to the side.
Mr. Zonen: You were on the passenger-side window as well?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And next to Vinnie?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: What did Vinnie say to Karen Walker that you were able to hear?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie told Karen Walker that the children were being put in school immediately. Because Karen Walker asked him, were the children going to be put in school. And he said yes, the next day.
Mr. Zonen: This was on the 21st of February?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, which was a Friday.
Mr. Zonen: And the kids were not put in school thereafter?
Janet Arvizo: They weren't put in school.
Mr. Zonen: Did you seek a tutorial for your children or a tutoring program once you were back out of Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Where did you seek to do that?
Janet Arvizo: After the children -- we were out, and I reenrolled the children in John Burroughs. I took them to a place called G -- I apologize, JEI Learning Center to bring them up to speed for all those weeks that they had missed school.
Mr. Zonen: How did you select JEI?
Janet Arvizo: I was looking, actually, for a learning center somewhere in the vicinity of John Burroughs so they would waste no time from attending school all day and then go there. And then that's where I found it.
Mr. Zonen: Excuse me, I'm sorry. At some point in time, were you introduced to an attorney by the name of Larry Feldman?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Who is it who introduced you to Larry Feldman?
Janet Arvizo: Bill Dickerman.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recall when it was you were introduced to Larry Feldman?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, when Michael's people wouldn't stop following us.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; move to strike.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us the date, if you recall, of your first meeting with Larry Feldman.
Janet Arvizo: I can't remember.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us approximately how many weeks after you finally -- after your children left Neverland it was that you actually met with Larry Feldman, if you recall.
Janet Arvizo: No, I can't remember.
Mr. Zonen: Whose idea was it to go to Larry Feldman?
Janet Arvizo: Mr. Dickerman's.
Mr. Zonen: After you saw Larry Feldman, did he refer you to somebody else to see?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Who was that?
Janet Arvizo: He referred us to see Dr. Katz.
Mr. Zonen: Is that Dr. Stan Katz?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What kind of a doctor did you understand Stan Katz to be?
Janet Arvizo: Something with mental.
Mr. Zonen: Psychologist or psychiatrist?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know which one he was, psychologist or psychiatrist?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't.
Mr. Zonen: Did each of you meet with Dr. Katz?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, we did.
Mr. Zonen: And by “each of you”, who are we referring to?
Janet Arvizo: Me and my three children. Davellin, Gavin and Star.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know why you were meeting with him?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, because Mr. Feldman --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
The Court: After “Yes”, I'll strike that.
Mr. Zonen: What was your understanding of why you were meeting with Mr. -- Dr. Katz?
Janet Arvizo: Because basically my house was a cuckoo house now.
Mr. Zonen: At the time that you went to Mr. Feldman, did you have any understanding of accusations of sexual abuse --
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: -- to Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Had Gavin talked to you up to that point about anything that had happened at Neverland to him?
Janet Arvizo: Um --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer “yes” or “no”.
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Gavin --
Mr. Zonen: No, just “yes” or “no”.
Janet Arvizo: Oh, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Gavin did have a conversation with you?
Janet Arvizo: No, it wasn't a conversation. It was like an erupted volcano.
Mr. Zonen: Hold on. At some point in time, did you actually sit down with Gavin and have a conversation with him about what took place at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: No. It was always broken, always.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, did you sit down and have a conversation with Star about what happened at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: He, too, it was always broken. I would always hush them up. I'd say, “Just forget. Forgive, forget. Forgive, forget”.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any belief at the time you went to Mr. Feldman that either of your boys had been molested?
Janet Arvizo: No, not molested. But I was aware of things.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike the comments.
The Court: Strike the last sentence.
Mr. Zonen: Did you go to Mr. Feldman because you believed your children were molested?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Janet Arvizo: My children -- Gavin was like an erupted volcano, all the different things.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained. Stricken.
Janet Arvizo: That's my answer.
Mr. Zonen: Let me withdraw the question and let me ask it again.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Why did you go to Mr. Feldman?
Janet Arvizo: Because as time progressed, I was finding out more and more. I -- I thought it was just alcohol.
Mr. Zonen: Were you concerned about the fact that your child had been given alcohol?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: That was something --
Janet Arvizo: That was enough for me.
Mr. Zonen: Was that something you told Mr. Feldman?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Why were you concerned about your child having been given alcohol?
Janet Arvizo: Because he only has one kidney --
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
Janet Arvizo: -- and it's malfunctioning.
The Court: Just a minute. You have to wait when there's an objection.
Janet Arvizo: Okay. Okay.
The Court: All right. The objection is overruled. And the answer was, “Because he only has one kidney”. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: During the course of your interview with Dr. Katz, did you tell Dr. Katz that you believed that your child had been molested?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Janet Arvizo: I don't remember what I told Mr. -- Dr. Katz. But -- I don't remember, because as time went by it was progressing.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; move to strike.
The Court: “I don't remember”, I'll leave that part in. Strike the rest of it.
Mr. Zonen: At the time of your meeting with Dr. Katz, did you believe that your child had been molested?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Asked and answered; and leading; and foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever come to a conclusion that your child had been molested?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Asked and answered; foundation; and leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Janet Arvizo: Yes. When I was told by the D.A., police office --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Move to strike; nonresponsive.
The Court: I'll leave the “Yes” and strike after that.
Mr. Zonen: I just want you to tell us when, not the circumstance. But when did you come to the conclusion that your child had been molested?
Janet Arvizo: Okay, when. I don't remember when.
Mr. Zonen: Was it before or after your meeting with Dr. Katz?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, it's way after.
Mr. Zonen: Was it before or after your initial meeting with one of the detectives from the sheriff's office?
Janet Arvizo: It was after the police, the police form a trust bond with Gavin --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Move to strike; nonresponsive.
Mr. Zonen: The question is simply when.
The Court: Just a moment. Just a moment.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
The Court: All right. I'll leave the answer, “It was after the police”, and strike the rest of that sentence. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: Approximately how long after your initial conversation with detectives was it?
Janet Arvizo: I can't remember. But it was after the police got involved.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: But I was aware of things.
Mr. Zonen: That's all. Just --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; move to strike.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Zonen: When did you finally get your possessions back?
Janet Arvizo: Until the police got involved. Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Where were your possessions moved to at that time?
Janet Arvizo: They were moved into another storage area, because I -- I no longer had a place now.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Move to strike; nonresponsive.
Janet Arvizo: I -- okay.
The Court: Overruled. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have an opportunity to go through your items after they were ultimately returned?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. With the police there.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And where was that that you went through all of your items?
Janet Arvizo: I immediately went to the clay pot that I told you where I had --
Mr. Zonen: Just tell us where it was that you looked at these items. Where is the location where the items were where you looked at them?
Janet Arvizo: Dino's Storage.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know where that is?
Janet Arvizo: I can't remember.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Was it someplace in Los Angeles County, to your knowledge?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Now, at that location, did you go through all of your --
Janet Arvizo: Oh, God, no. I think it's somewhere near, like, Calabasas area. Somewhere like that.
Mr. Zonen: In the valley somewhere?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah, in that area.
Mr. Zonen: San Fernando Valley?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Now, at that location did you go through all of your items to see what was there and what was not there?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Were you able to find any of the letters that Mr. Jackson had sent to Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: I immediately went to the clay pot. Lifted it up. Gone.
Mr. Zonen: Was everything missing from the clay pot?
Janet Arvizo: Everything was missing.
Mr. Zonen: Were there any other items besides letters that were missing?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Pictures, and that rabbit.
Mr. Zonen: By “pictures” do you mean photographs?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And these are photographs of what?
Janet Arvizo: Of Michael with the children.
Mr. Zonen: And then you said a rabbit.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: You're talking about a doll of some kind?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And from where did this rabbit come from?
Janet Arvizo: From Michael, from Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: And what became of that?
Janet Arvizo: Gone.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recall the jacket that you referred to that was given to Gavin by Mr. Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I do.
Mr. Zonen: What happened to that jacket?
Janet Arvizo: I turned that over to Mr. Sneddon.
Mr. Zonen: And did you identify that jacket before the grand jury?
Janet Arvizo: I don't remember if I did that. I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: Can you describe that jacket for us?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I can. It's black with -- Mr. Jackson said it was crystals on the back.
Mr. Zonen: Something that glittered?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Mr. Jackson said it was real crystals.
Mr. Zonen: Was there anything else that was given to any of your children by Mr. Jackson during the time that they were with him during the months of February or March?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever see a watch?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Mr. Jackson told Gavin that it was a $75,000 watch.
Mr. Zonen: And where did you see that watch?
Janet Arvizo: On his wrist. On Gavin's wrist.
Mr. Zonen: At --
Janet Arvizo: Mr. Jackson took it off of his wrist and placed it onto Gavin's wrist.
Mr. Zonen: Were you watching that happen?
Janet Arvizo: I don't think I did. I don't think I did. I just know afterwards this is what I found out.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Move to strike; no foundation.
The Court: Sustained. Stricken.
Mr. Zonen: Where did you first see that watch?
Janet Arvizo: I first seen it when -- I think when Gavin got off the airplane. And then the rest of the time when they were at Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: Did he wear that watch while you were at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, he did.
Mr. Zonen: Can you describe the watch for us?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, it was gold, and it had stuff that looked like diamonds on the face. That's the best I can remember.
Mr. Zonen: For how long did Gavin wear that watch?
Janet Arvizo: Every day until -- every day. Every day, I think, prior to going back to Neverland. I think so. I don't remember. I'm doing my best estimate.
Mr. Zonen: When he took the watch off, what happened to the watch?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, he didn't take it off while he had it on at Neverland at all.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time did he stop wearing the watch?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah. When we got back, I took it off. You know, “Stop wearing this ridiculous watch”.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. What did you do with the watch?
Janet Arvizo: I think I had -- I think I had Jay -- I left it at Jay's apartment.
Mr. Zonen: And ultimately where did the watch go?
Janet Arvizo: I gave it to the police.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Sneddon?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, Mr. Sneddon. The police.
Mr. Zonen: The police. Do you remember who it was you gave it to?
Janet Arvizo: Let me see. Okay. Yes, I did. I gave it to the attorneys, because I didn't want it in my house. And then --
Mr. Zonen: Which attorneys?
Janet Arvizo: I gave it to Mr. Dickerman, and then we ended up giving it to Mr. Feldman, and then the police retrieved it from Mr. Feldman's office, the -- yeah.
Mr. Zonen: While you were at Neverland, did anybody talk to you about finding you a place to live ultimately after Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: No. The -- it was at Brazil.
Mr. Zonen: No, but did anybody ever talk to you about getting a house for you or apartment or a condo or something like that?
Janet Arvizo: The condition was that we had to leave the country.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry. The question was, did somebody talk to you about getting a house or an apartment at some time?
Janet Arvizo: Only if we left the country.
Mr. Zonen: Does that mean the answer is “yes”, somebody did --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Now, this conversation was with whom?
Janet Arvizo: With Frank and Vinnie.
Mr. Zonen: At the same time?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Were both of them talking to you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. They were trying to get me to leave the country.
Mr. Zonen: And this was still while you were at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What did they say specifically about getting you a house or an apartment, or what --
Janet Arvizo: If I left the country, I can have that.
Mr. Zonen: You could have what?
Janet Arvizo: A house and an apartment to go back and forth. But, no, I didn't want to leave the country.
Mr. Zonen: I don't understand, “a house” -- I don't understand. What does that mean, “to go back and forth”?
Janet Arvizo: That's what they said. Frank and Vinnie came up with different things every time. But the key here, that is consistent, is that, “You got to leave the country”.
Mr. Zonen: Conditioned upon going to Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What did they say specifically about a house or an apartment? What did they say?
Janet Arvizo: If I left the country I could have that.
Mr. Zonen: You could have what?
Janet Arvizo: A house and an apartment.
Mr. Zonen: Did they say why you would need both a house and an apartment?
Janet Arvizo: They said something like to go back and forth. This way there's still -- I have that burned in my brain, appeasing the killers. This way, if the killers showed up at the apartment, I could go to the house; from the house to the apartment.
Mr. Zonen: Did they tell you Michael Jackson would be purchasing that for you or renting that for you or what the arrangement would be financially?
Janet Arvizo: That Mr. Jackson would do it if I left the country.
Mr. Zonen: Did you understand that you would actually own this?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: They didn't say one way or the other whether --
Janet Arvizo: No, they just said as I told you.
Mr. Zonen: You didn't ask whether this would be something in your name or somebody else's name?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Or whether you'd have to pay rent on it?
Janet Arvizo: I knew I didn't want to leave the country. I don't care what they promised me.
Mr. Zonen: Did either Frank or Vinnie make any other representations to you in terms of money, or college education, or anything else that they would be giving you if you went to Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did he make any representations of what they would be giving to you even if you didn't leave for Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: No. Zero.
Mr. Zonen: During the period of time from the time that you were contacted by Michael Jackson back in early February of '03 to the time that you left Neverland and your children left Neverland on around the 11th of March, did you ever ask anybody from Neverland, whether it was Michael Jackson or Vinnie or Frank, for money?
Janet Arvizo: No. Zero.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever ask any of them for money prior to that time --
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: -- on February 4th?
Janet Arvizo: That's not my nature.
Mr. Zonen: Did either or any of them at Neverland make an offer to give you money?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you receive money from any of them?
Janet Arvizo: Nope.
Mr. Zonen: And by receiving money, I mean at any time since you first visited Neverland back in August of 2000 until you ultimately left and had no further communication with them.
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever have a conversation with anybody at Neverland, whether it was Michael Jackson or Vinnie or Frank or anybody else, about the subject of whether money would be given to you?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever ask anybody at Neverland, whether it was Michael Jackson or anybody else, to support you for the rest of your life?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Could counsel and I approach the bench briefly about the exhibit?
The Court: All right. (Discussion held off the record at sidebar.)
The Court: Okay. We're ready to go.
Mr. Zonen: Miss Arvizo, are you intending on filing a lawsuit against Michael Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Are you intending on filing a lawsuit against Michael Jackson on behalf of your children?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Are you intending on doing it anytime during this proceeding or anytime thereafter?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, I have no further questions at this time. I do intend to play the video once the particulars are worked out on it. And --
The Court: All right. What we agreed to at the sidebar here was the District Attorney needs to prepare the three or four tapes that he was going to show earlier that was compiled into one. He's going to show them separately based on an earlier ruling I made. And rather than have Mr. Mesereau start late in the afternoon with cross-examination and then be interrupted with that, we're going to recess early. (To the jury) I knew you'd be unhappy about that. I'll see you tomorrow morning at 8:30. Remember the admonition.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:10 p.m.
