Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Monday, April 18, 2005 8:30 a.m.
The Court: Good morning, everyone.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor.
The Court: Ready to proceed?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Go ahead.
Message: JANET JACKSON Having been previously sworn, resumed the stand and testified further as follows:
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION Continued BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Ms. Arvizo, throughout January, February, March and April of 2003, you were being represented by counsel in proceedings related to your ex-husband David, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Of what year?
Mr. Mesereau: 2003.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And without going into much of the detail, you were represented by a lawyer who you've mentioned already named Michael Manning, correct?
Janet Arvizo: For what?
Mr. Mesereau: For your request for spousal support, your issues involving David Arvizo and your domestic proceeding, correct?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And documents related to your requests for spousal support from David and other issues related to your divorce were being periodically filed by Attorney Michael Manning, correct?
Janet Arvizo: I don't understand his question very well, but something about spousal support and child support, that was in effect for already almost -- almost, my best estimate, for almost three years. We had been waiting for that court date for years already. That's my best estimate.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long do you recall Michael Manning representing you?
Janet Arvizo: I think, my best estimate, since 2001. I was way at the bottom of his list because I -- he was providing his services for free.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
The Court: Stricken after the date.
Mr. Mesereau: So would it be accurate to say, based on what you remember, Attorney Michael Manning was representing you in 2001, 2002, 2003, and 2004 on issues related to your ex-husband?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And various income and expense declarations, various declarations, various documents were periodically being filed with the court by Attorney Manning on your behalf, right?
Janet Arvizo: If I clearly -- if I understand his question, I think with Mr. Manning, that was handled in a bulk, and I think it was probably in the first meeting that I had ever met with him, and I held onto those things. That's the best I can remember. So he did it when he had time because, like I said, I was at the bottom of his list.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it be accurate to say that this lawyer filed documents on your behalf on October 15th, 2001, October 16th, 2001, November 6th, 2001, January 10th, 2002, April of 2002, June 25th, 2002, January 6th, 2003, January 23rd, 2003, March 5th, 2003, and that there was a hearing on March 11th, 2003, involving your issues with David? Does that sound accurate to you?
Janet Arvizo: I don't know what he's trying to say. But like I said, in the initial meeting with him, to the best of my recollection, it was handled like in a package, he had like a package already made. So when he had time, he went ahead and took care of it himself. Because he made me aware, since he was doing it for free, it was as he could, so I had to be patient.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just showed you all those filed documents that were filed with the court?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. He filed them accordingly to when he had time, because I was not a paying customer.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
The Court: After “Yes”, I'll strike.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Arvizo, have you had a chance to look at those court documents?
Janet Arvizo: Just the date on them, the same ones he just said.
Mr. Mesereau: Do they refresh your recollection that your attorney was filing documents throughout those years on your behalf?
Janet Arvizo: Like I said, he went -- according to when he had time, yes, that's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: All of those years, this attorney was representing you in your domestic problems with your ex-husband David, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I think it goes without saying that this lawyer was representing you during the time period you claim you were being harassed and falsely imprisoned by Mr. Jackson's associates, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And I think you've already said, you never told this lawyer at any time that anyone in your family was being held against their will, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Are you -- is that attorney-client privilege? Because he's still my attorney.
Mr. Mesereau: If you're asserting the privilege, I will not ask any further into that.
Janet Arvizo: Yes, please.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Is Attorney Michael Manning still representing you?
Janet Arvizo: No, he's not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you indicated to the jury that this attorney was representing you for free; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, this is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't your attorney at one point file documents with the court asking that your ex-husband pay your fees?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, this is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, in the -- just to set the record straight on dates, it appears that your divorce action was filed October 15th, 2001. Does that make sense to you?
Janet Arvizo: The best I can remember is after David was arrested and the first day he presented himself at the criminal courts is when Michael Manning handed him already the documents for divorce.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: That's the best I can remember how it happened.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall approximately when he was first arrested?
Janet Arvizo: I think he was arrested either the end of September -- I think my best estimate is the end of September, but it could have possibly been the beginning of October. But the best I can remember is the end of September.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, on October 4th, 2001, you went to the Hollenbeck Division with Davellin, Star, and Gavin to report problems with David, right?
Janet Arvizo: The Hollenbeck Division is composed of two different separate buildings. The Hollenbeck Police Department is a separate building from the Hollenbeck detective center. And if you walk there, it's quite a distance. But on car, it's quite fast. And there's even, I think, a bridge, a freeway bridge that separates both things, and they're even on separate side of the buildings. Separate side of the street, I mean.
Mr. Mesereau: And you know that police department quite well, correct?
Janet Arvizo: I've never gone to the police department. I've only gone to the detective center.
Mr. Mesereau: And on October 4th, 2001, you did go to the Hollenbeck detective section, correct?
Janet Arvizo: I don't remember the date, but I do remember the event.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you a report to refresh your memory on the date?
Janet Arvizo: If you say the date's on there, then that should be correct. That should be accurate.
Mr. Mesereau: I can't testify. Can I just show it to you?
Janet Arvizo: Well, if it's on the paper, it's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Would it refresh your recollection if I just show it to you?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. Come on over.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes. But, Counsel, she's conceded the date. So what are you doing?
Mr. Mesereau: If the Court permits, I'll just read the date into the record.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, I'll stipulate to the date as being the date of the event.
The Court: Without stipulation, she's conceded whatever date is on there is accurate. So let's move along.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: The date on the report is October 4th, 2001.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: And you recall going to the detective division to speak about your problems with David, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. The detective there had invited me, if I wanted to come on over, to come on over, because our phone had been -- our interview had been by the phone.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you got to the detective division and asked to talk to a detective, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. I think it was the same one that I had been talking to.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told the detective you wanted to show the detective a videotape and numerous photos of you and your children spending time with various celebrities?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, because he had a hard time believing that a woman in East L.A. with her children knew such -- knew -- knew them. And he's a detective, so, you know, he was curious.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you bring the photos of celebrities with you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And what photos of celebrities did you bring to the detective division of the Hollenbeck Division?
Janet Arvizo: I think it was -- I think it was mostly of Chris. Chris and Azja.
Mr. Mesereau: And according to the detective, you laughed and appeared happy at the meeting, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, because finally me and my children are getting some sense of freedom.
Mr. Mesereau: It says you seemed happy as you showed him information about various celebrities, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Well, it was a video of Chris and the children together. And Azja.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, before you testified has anyone showed you any police reports to review?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, they have shown them to me.
Mr. Mesereau: And who's “they”?
Janet Arvizo: The D.A.'s Office.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when did they do that, approximately?
Janet Arvizo: Approximately, probably -- I think it was days ago, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you meet over the weekend with anyone from the prosecution?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Who was that?
Janet Arvizo: Mr. Zonen.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you meet Mr. Zonen?
Janet Arvizo: Yesterday, with a detective present.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you go over documents?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk about your testimony?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How long was the meeting?
Janet Arvizo: With me? Probably about -- about ten minutes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And the whole meeting was ten minutes?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where did it take place?
Janet Arvizo: At -- in --
Mr. Mesereau: Don't give your address if it's your home. Just say it's, you know, at a residence.
Janet Arvizo: No. Are you okay?
Bailiff Cortez: I apologize.
Janet Arvizo: I don't know what you --
Mr. Mesereau: Was it at a residence?
Janet Arvizo: No. No, it wasn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it at an office?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object to the location, Your Honor.
The Court: He's just trying to get a general statement. It's overruled. You may answer.
Janet Arvizo: Where I'm staying.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And they came to see you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And the meeting was only ten minutes?
Janet Arvizo: It was ten minutes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: I think he must have been on his way back to the office, I guess.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. In your -- in one of your domestic violence disputes with David, do you remember signing a declaration that your children -- your boys sleep with baseball bats because they're afraid of David?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was that true?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when did your boys begin sleeping with baseball bats, if you know?
Janet Arvizo: To the best that I can remember, it's when David and Mr. Halpern, his attorney, were making the -- parading on the circuitry of the T.V., you know, making their rounds on T.V. And so it resurfaced a lot of things that they had been already feeling. But it intensified in 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: So because of the T.V. appearances by David and his lawyer, your sons began sleeping with baseball bats; is that what you're saying?
Janet Arvizo: It began then. It began. It's the best I can remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did the -- now, excuse me, did you say a prosecutor showed you various police reports?
Janet Arvizo: Not yesterday.
Mr. Mesereau: Not yesterday?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: But at some point?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the prosecutor show you another police report where you reported David for domestic violence and told the police that Michael Jackson, Kobe Bryant and Fritz Coleman are going to help you?
Janet Arvizo: That's because David was calling me “whore”, and he said -- David said that he was going to tell everybody that I had sex with them. And so if they wanted to do that, they can go verify with them that I'm not having sex with any of those people.
Mr. Mesereau: That wasn't in your police interview, was it?
Janet Arvizo: I did speak to the detective about it.
Mr. Mesereau: So when you told the detective, “Michael Jackson, Kobe Bryant and Fritz Coleman are going to help me in my action against David”, that's what you were referring to?
Janet Arvizo: Not action against David. That they can go ask basically them themself that I'm not having sex with them.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you've seen the report, and nowhere in the report does it ever say that you told the police officers that there are accusations that, “I'm having sex with these celebrities”, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Well, I don't think that's considered a crime.
Mr. Mesereau: So when the police officer just mentions that quote, in your mind you should have also said, “I told him the reason for the quote was that there were false accusations about me having sex with these celebrities”, correct?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object. That question is ambiguous.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Had you ever told Michael Jackson anything about your domestic problems with David?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Had you ever told Kobe Bryant anything about your domestic problems with David?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Had you told Fritz Coleman anything about your domestic problems with David?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And again, in looking at the report, you know that there's nothing in that report about these false accusations of sex, you know that, correct?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know that?
Janet Arvizo: I don't think it was considered a crime.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection just to see the report?
Janet Arvizo: I don't need to see the report. I'm telling you that's what happened and that's it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you had a hearing -- excuse me, let me rephrase that better. Based on reports you made to the police, David Arvizo was charged with domestic violence a couple of times, right?
Janet Arvizo: I don't know what you're talking about. What --
Mr. Mesereau: I'll be happy to rephrase. Based on accusations you made about David Arvizo being abusive and violent, he was prosecuted, right?
Janet Arvizo: I don't under --
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as speculative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall David Arvizo being prosecuted for crimes related to domestic violence?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And as far as you know, why was he prosecuted?
Janet Arvizo: Because he did the crime.
Mr. Mesereau: And was he reported for those crimes, to your knowledge?
Janet Arvizo: He was investigated.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know how the investigations began?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, because the best I can remember is I was outside getting beat up and some children called the police.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, do you recall, in -- excuse me. At some point you spoke to a city attorney, correct, from the Los Angeles County City Attorney's Office, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. Which case are we talking about?
Mr. Mesereau: One of your domestic -- one of the domestic violence cases that were filed against your ex-husband David. Do you recall talking to someone named Soriano?
Janet Arvizo: Okay, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you recall talking to Mr. Soriano about a photograph that had you holding a knife? Do you remember that?
Janet Arvizo: I didn't talk to him about it. He asked me, because David and Mr. Halpern, the ones that they've sold to the tabloids, presented it to me.
Mr. Mesereau: And you didn't deny there was a photo of you with a knife like this, right?
Janet Arvizo: Of course there was.
Mr. Mesereau: And you had an explanation for that photograph, right?
Janet Arvizo: Of course.
Mr. Mesereau: And please tell the jury what that explanation is.
Janet Arvizo: In the tabloids they have blurted out -- well, they phased out the running -- I think it was running water, dishes -- full of dishes in the sink, my son sitting in the background doing his homework. I was washing the dishes at the time. And David had asked me, he goes, “Hey, Janet's like the movie”. This is the best I can remember. And he said, “Here”, and it was all done in jokingly, and he snapped a picture. Well, we're talking about one of those throw-away camera pictures. And my son is clearly in the background doing his homework, holding up his paperwork. It's the best I can remember.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would agree you're photographed with a knife like this?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I am.
Mr. Mesereau: And it all is play acting, right?
Janet Arvizo: No, it was done jokingly.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Some other photographs surface of you with something else you were holding, correct?
Janet Arvizo: That was a broom. You know, when you sweep like this from left to right, depending, yes. And they also -- Mr. Halpern and David also sold that to the tabloids.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was meant in jest also, correct, the photo of you with a broom?
Janet Arvizo: Those pictures were taken in, hmm, I think -- I think in 1999. The best I can remember. 1999. No, goodness, I think 1998, actually. Seven years ago. That is the best I can remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, around October 16th of 2001, you filed documents with the Superior Court through your attorney, Michael Manning, in which you claimed David had threatened to kill you and the kids, right?
Janet Arvizo: I don't think it's the word -- the way you're saying it is word for word. But David, many, many years, had already threatened me. Always.
Mr. Mesereau: And didn't you say in documents filed with the court David said he would kill you and the kids?
Janet Arvizo: I think what is -- I don't think he's saying it word for word. But David had always threatened me and the kids, always.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he threaten you with death?
Janet Arvizo: He always would.
Mr. Mesereau: And you indicated that David said that if you cause him trouble, he would have one of Ray's, his brother, people kill you and the kids, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. David had said that for years, many, many years to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Who is Ray?
Janet Arvizo: Ray is David's brother, who is a convicted drug dealer.
Mr. Mesereau: And did Ray himself ever threaten you and the children?
Janet Arvizo: Ray never, never threatened me. It was all per David's own word.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point did you mention in one of your interviews that you had been abused in your own home growing up?
Janet Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever mention anything about your father being abusive?
Janet Arvizo: Absolutely never.
Mr. Mesereau: And you didn't tell that to anyone, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did all the abuse in your home come from David himself?
Janet Arvizo: Always.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall the meeting with Brad Miller at Jay Jackson's residence?
Janet Arvizo: I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall Mr. Miller mentioning to you and Jay Jackson and your family that he worked for Attorney Mark Geragos, who represented Michael Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't recall that. And it wasn't important to me because when he had walked in at the door, he said he was Michael's private investigator. And also Frank had told me that Brad Miller was Michael's private investigator. So all that mumbo-jumbo he was saying, it wasn't brought to my attention until we had a -- here, I was here in this courtroom, and I think it was September. So he's doing the same thing he did in September.
Mr. Mesereau: When -- Move to strike, Your Honor.
The Court: I'll strike after, “No, I didn't recall that”.
Mr. Mesereau: When you learned that Brad Miller was an investigator, did it ever occur to you that you were being investigated?
Janet Arvizo: No. Because Frank had told me that he was Michael's private investigator and he was here to help me and the kids. And I believed him. I believed too much of them.
Mr. Mesereau: He said he was an investigator for Mark Geragos in front of Major Jay Jackson, did he not?
Janet Arvizo: Jay repeatedly kept coming in and out of his bedroom.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Brad Miller, as far as you remember, ever tell Major Jay Jackson in Major Jay Jackson's home that he was an investigator for Mark Geragos, who represented Michael Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever discussing with Jay Jackson the fact that Brad Miller was a private investigator?
Janet Arvizo: No. It's just that's how he introduced himself.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss with Jay Jackson either before or after that interview who Brad Miller was?
Janet Arvizo: There was no -- I don't know what he's trying -- it's so broad, but, the answer to that question is no, as I'm understanding it.
Mr. Mesereau: After the interview was completed, did you ever discuss with Jay Jackson who Brad Miller was?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And did Jay Jackson ever ask you, “Janet, he said he's an investigator. Who is he?”
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn that Asaf worked for Attorney Mark Geragos?
Janet Arvizo: On the tape -- on the tape-recorder that Asaf illegally was taping the Child Protective Services, he also says my son -- I think my son there, Star, asks him, and he points out that he's Michael's security, or Star asks him, “Are you Michael's security?” And he clearly says by his own mouth, “Yes”.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn that Johnny was a private investigator working with Miller?
Janet Arvizo: Johnny told me he was Michael's security.
Mr. Mesereau: So it never occurred to you at any time that Attorney Mark Geragos had anyone investigating who you were and who your family was?
Janet Arvizo: Well, first of all, why would he have a criminal defense attorney --
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
Janet Arvizo: -- if there's no criminal investigation under its way?
The Court: You may answer that “yes” or “no”. Did it occur to you?
Janet Arvizo: Can you --
Mr. Mesereau: If we could have it read back.
Janet Arvizo: Could you ask it differently? Because I answered you what I thought was the answer that you were looking for.
Mr. Mesereau: Did it ever occur to you that Attorney Mark Geragos had hired investigators to investigate who you and your family were and what your plans were?
Janet Arvizo: Criminal defense attorney, no. Now I know he's a criminal defense attorney. No.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never discussed with Major Jackson who these people are and what they're doing, correct?
Janet Arvizo: No. I believed everything Frank had told me. I believed everything Michael had told me. I believed them. I trusted them, that's why we're here today.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike, Your Honor.
The Court: I'll strike everything after “No”.
Mr. Mesereau: At this time, Your Honor, with the Court's permission, we'd like to play the audiotape of the Brad Miller interview, Exhibit 5000.
The Court: Would you remind us how long that tape is?
Mr. Sanger: It's 34 minutes and 24 seconds.
The Court: Are you going to interrupt the tape with questions or just play it again?
Mr. Mesereau: I was going to interrupt with a couple of questions. Not too many.
The Court: Can't you just go to the points in the tape that -- instead of having us sit here again, listen to that whole tape?
Mr. Mesereau: I can do that, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Do it.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Arvizo, do you recall -- the interview begins with Mr. Miller saying the following: “All right. This is a tape-recorded statement conducted with the Arvizo family, conducted by Brad Miller. Today is Sunday, February 16th, 2003. It's now 9:47 p.m. on that evening. And as I told you, my name is Brad Miller. I'm a licensed private investigator working on behalf of the Law Firm of Geragos & Geragos, specifically for an attorney by the name of Mark Geragos, who is an attorney for Michael Jackson. And this conversation is being tape-recorded with your permission, correct, Janet?” And your answer is, “Yes”. Do you recall Mr. Miller telling you he worked for Mark Geragos?
Janet Arvizo: In September it was brought to my attention, this mumbo-jumbo. Up to that point I had only believed he was Michael's private investigator.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall towards the end of that recorded interview, Mr. Miller asks you the following: “All right. Well, I thank you guys. I think this has been very helpful. So let's wrap this up. It's now about 10:25, Sunday night, February 16th, 2003. As I've told you, my name is Brad Miller. I'm a private investigator working on behalf of Mark Geragos, who's an attorney for Michael Jackson. And this conversation has been tape-recorded with your permission, correct, Janet?” Answer, by you, “Yes”. Do you recall that?
Janet Arvizo: I didn't pay attention to that.
The Court: Counsel, do we have a transcript yet for that?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, we do, Your Honor. I don't think we've lodged it with the Court, but we do have one.
The Court: Would you lodge it with the Court, please?
Mr. Mesereau: I'll see if I can --
The Court: Later today is fine.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Yes, we will.
Mr. Mesereau: Where was Jay -- excuse me, where was Major Jay Jackson during that interview?
Janet Arvizo: My husband -- in the beginning, we were just -- it was a new relationship. And at that point I think he must have been in his bedroom, because you saw him kind of detached, what was going on.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike, Your Honor.
The Court: Stricken. You just need to answer the question. Listen to it carefully, and then just answer the question. Don't volunteer additional information. Would you -- do you want to restate it or do you want the court reporter to read it back?
Mr. Mesereau: If the court reporter would read it back, I'd appreciate it. Thank you.
The Court Reporter: Where was Jay -- excuse me, where was Major Jay Jackson during that interview?
Janet Arvizo: The majority of the time, in his bedroom.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Major Jay Jackson sitting during the majority of that interview on the couch?
Janet Arvizo: The majority of that interview he was in his bedroom.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, is it your -- let me rephrase that. Are you claiming that what you said in this interview on February 16th, 2003, was scripted?
Janet Arvizo: I already told him before. Everything that was on the Bradley Miller audiotape was from my heart, from the initial lovey-dovey meeting that I had in Miami. I believed him and I trusted him. So, it's -- the best I can say, it's most -- it's all accurate.
Mr. Mesereau: You were asked by Mr. Miller, “What was Mr. Jackson's role in his recovery?” referring to Gavin and his cancer. Do you remember that?
Janet Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said, “Like a father, like a father to him”. Do you remember that?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Brad Miller said to you, “What would Michael do?” And your answer was, “Everything a loving father, unselfish, kind”, then inaudible, “exhibits unconditional love”, correct?
Janet Arvizo: All of the Bradley Miller audiotape, it's all correct and accurate. That's how I felt.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, your son Gavin also spoke in that interview, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And as far as you know, he was telling the truth, right?
Janet Arvizo: There's -- there was a few times that I had stepped out, because I was feeling a little bit concerned as to why and -- how Jay was feeling, because it was a new relationship with me that I was beginning with Jay, so I was getting a little concerned as to why Jay kept coming in and out. So there's periods in there that I'm not present when there's being audiotape.
Mr. Mesereau: Gavin said that Michael would always put a smile on his face. Do you remember that?
Janet Arvizo: I have since read the -- the transcript of the audiotape. And like I said, everything there is accurate. Everything there is correct. That's how they were feeling at that moment and at that time.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were there when Gavin said Michael didn't come to the hospital but he would call him on the phone, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Pardon me?
Mr. Mesereau: You were present at the interview when Gavin said Michael didn't come to the hospital. He would call on the phone, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. He did -- Michael never once came to the hospital. But there was long hours of conversations, hours and hours.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said in that interview, “And that's one thing the role Michael was, he wasn't just a father figure to Gavin, he also was to Star and Davellin, because he knew that all three of them needed him and he was -- um, is family to me. And he also realized that I needed him”. Correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. This is stemming from the initial meeting that I had in Miami that he gave me a reinterpretation of what his role was. This is from Michael in Miami.
Mr. Mesereau: So this is from your heart and it's the truth, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it is. It is.
Mr. Mesereau: You talked about David being charged with child endangerment and terrorist threats, right?
Janet Arvizo: If that's on there, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection? I can show it to you.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Davellin said that David had broken her tailbone, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, he had.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was true, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes. With his big old foot. Kicked her right --
Mr. Mesereau: Gavin said that David hit him during his cancer treatment?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was also true, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Star said that David hit him where he has a cyst, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You said that David would even abuse the dog, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. He hurt many of our little animals.
Mr. Mesereau: You mentioned a ferret and a dog, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: You talked about, “They had filmed -- when they had filmed the beautiful story about Michael and my son, David was there present”. Do you remember that?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What were you referring to when you talked about “the beautiful story about Michael and my son”?
Janet Arvizo: It was the DVD that's titled “Michael and Gavin”. I had never seen it prior to this time, but Michael had informed me that it was a beautiful story. So this is a -- all stemming from the Miami meeting, that 45-minute lovey-dovey meeting that I had with Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: So when you talked about the beautiful story, you hadn't seen it; is that true?
Janet Arvizo: I had never seen it prior to Gary giving it to Evvy -- I mean Evvy giving it to Gary and Gary giving it to us.
Mr. Mesereau: You said that David was mad one day because you and Michael were dancing, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. And this was -- this was David's character. You know, I couldn't wear makeup. Couldn't shave my legs. You know, just different things. So, yes, it was a -- I was happy to see Gavin dancing, because Gavin at that point had like a toddler walk. And, to me, that made me happy. And we were at a 20-foot distance and yet I still got beat up for that.
Mr. Mesereau: But you said that, “Me and Michael were dancing”, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, me, Michael, the children. You don't take it out of context or make it dirty. He was -- me, Michael, the children, other guests there. It was inside this -- what is it? -- bumper cars area, and they have the ability to play the music really loud, so -- and that's what -- that's just what it was all about.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike the comments, Your Honor.
The Court: Denied.
Mr. Mesereau: Where were you and Michael dancing?
Janet Arvizo: It was inside, just the children, me, Michael and other guests there, under a tent in the bumper car area.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did this happen?
Janet Arvizo: That happened in the initial meeting in August of 2000. And I was happy to see that Gavin was actually trying to dance. He wasn't able to dance. But because he had a toddler walk, to me, that was a big step.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell the jury last week you had never had a conversation with Michael Jackson until Miami?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I never had a conversation with Michael. Michael didn't talk to me in the initial visit with him.
Mr. Mesereau: You danced with him, but you never talked to him?
Janet Arvizo: That's right. It wasn't me and him solely under the blue sky night. It was me, him, my children, other guests, under a tent in the bumper car area, which they had the ability to play the music really loud.
Mr. Mesereau: The first time you visited Neverland, do you recall having dinner in the main house at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Michael Jackson being there?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall a discussion about where Gavin was going to sleep?
Janet Arvizo: It wasn't a discussion with me. It was a discussion with David.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when did that dinner take place?
Janet Arvizo: Dinnertime.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximate month and year?
Janet Arvizo: Approximate, August 2000.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never spoke to Michael Jackson at that dinner table?
Janet Arvizo: No. David was present.
Mr. Mesereau: How long did the dinner last?
Janet Arvizo: I guess maybe -- maybe 20 minutes' worth. Maybe.
Mr. Mesereau: Getting back to the Brad Miller recording, you said the following: “In my observance and their interaction, and Gavin with Michael and Star, with Michael and Davellin, with Michael is that, as a father figure, he provides for them. He provides them with a sense of humor. He's very funny. And a sense of direction and guidance”. And you meant what you were saying, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did. This is my observance of what I saw in Miami. But now I know different what was happening and I was -- and I was clueless.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike the comments.
The Court: I'll strike after “Yes, I did”.
Mr. Mesereau: You said, “Michael's everything that an ultimate father is, and that's what the children have always prayed for, is a father, and that God has blessed them with. And me, I've always wanted family, so he's family to me”. You said that from your heart, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. He put on a good show in Miami.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike the comment.
The Court: Strike the -- after “Yes”.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said, “In being what I endured in 17 years, I would be the most sensitive to any little thing. And Michael has never, absolutely never, made me feel in any way, form, shape or matter that anything was anything different other than Gavin as a son to Michael, Star as a son to Michael, Davellin as a daughter to Michael, and Michael father, like a father to all three of them”. Do you remember saying that?
Mr. Zonen: What page are we on?
Mr. Mesereau: 12.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember saying those words?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, and now I realize how stupid I was.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
The Court: I'll strike after, “Yes”, but what's the point? I mean, on the questions here, you're asking her whether she said things. We've heard the tape, we know what she said. Do you have specific areas you wanted to ask her about?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: Getting her to say again that she said those things doesn't seem to be getting us somewhere here, to me.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll tie it up, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Ms. Arvizo, do you remember telling the jury that you were rehearsing with the people you refer to as the Germans for the February 20th interview?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: This interview with Brad Miller is February 16th, 2003, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You've told the jury it wasn't rehearsed, correct?
Janet Arvizo: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you saying in the next four days you rehearsed for the February 20th video?
Janet Arvizo: Prior to Jesus, it was many times daily in Neverland with Dieter. First it was Ronald, Dieter, and then it became Dieter hands on. And as you can see, maybe you've -- it's been played approximately five or six times here, and I'm sure there's many people that can recite it now. Imagine me working daily, Dieter hands on, with me and my kids, many times in one day, how that's possible.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
The Court: I'll ask you just to answer the question again. The question was, “Are you saying in the next four days you rehearsed for the February 20th video?” And what's your answer to that question?
Janet Arvizo: It had already done -- been done prior with Dieter on a daily basis.
The Court: All right. I'll strike her other answer. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: You're saying you'd rehearsed with Dieter before, but what you said on this interview with Brad Miller was from the heart, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. When did you first meet Jamie Masada?
Janet Arvizo: The best I can remember, I think it was -- it was definitely before Gavin became ill.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you meet him?
Janet Arvizo: Through -- the best I can remember, it was -- I had seen a flyer at a public school that was, you know, talking about a comedy camp.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you bring your children to Jamie Masada's comedy camp?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did your children attend the comedy camp?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes, they did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you attend with them?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Every single time. I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, do you recall any of your children getting on stage and performing about how poor your family was?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall telling Jamie Masada that your children dove into a fountain for coins?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall telling George Lopez your children dove into a fountain for coins?
Janet Arvizo: No. It may have been David maybe. If they're saying that, it may have been David.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
The Court: Stricken after “No”.
Mr. Mesereau: Jamie Masada introduced you to various celebrities, right?
Janet Arvizo: Not just me, the whole group, the whole -- everybody. Everybody that was attending.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you meet various celebrities through Jamie Masada?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who did you meet?
Janet Arvizo: There were guest comics. And me personally, I didn't get to meet them. The only people I did get to meet was -- personally was George Lopez. This is the best I can remember. Louise Palanker. Fritz Coleman. Sully McCullough. That's the best I can remember. Those are the people that I personally met. And of course Chris Tucker and his fiancee, girlfriend, I don't know how they are now, but that's the best I can remember. Me personally.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately what month and year was this?
Janet Arvizo: The best I can remember, it was all prior to Gavin becoming ill. The only one that we met after Gavin was ill was Chris Tucker. And with Azja. This is the best I can remember. But all the other ones that have already came up here, it was prior to Gavin becoming ill.
Mr. Mesereau: In your deposition in the J.C. Penney case, and I'm referring to December 18th, 2000, you indicated that you had filed a state disability claim because you were depressed. Remember that?
Janet Arvizo: Um, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You were asked what caused the depression. You said it was not your marriage, “I was just sad about being a nobody”. Do you remember that?
Janet Arvizo: I'm still a nobody.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you just answer the question. Isn't that what you said?
Janet Arvizo: If it's on there, that's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you that?
Janet Arvizo: There was many things why I was sad. Most of all, the man that I was married that didn't love me or my kids.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
The Court: Strike that answer. I'm not quite sure what the question is at this point, however.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase; I can restate it, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: You testified under oath, Ms. Arvizo, that you filed a state disability claim because you were depressed, and when asked why you were depressed, you said, “I was sad about being a nobody”, right?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; compound.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember being questioned about why you had filed a state disability claim?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't. But what he's talking about --
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember filing a state disability claim?
Janet Arvizo: Not at that time. It was years and years and years prior to what he's saying now.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember why you filed that state disability claim?
Janet Arvizo: Depression.
Mr. Mesereau: And the depression was because you felt you were a nobody, right?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as irrelevant; immaterial.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Janet Arvizo: I'm still a nobody. But now I'm with somebody that's just a regular person.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike, Your Honor. I'd just request the witness be asked to respond to the question.
The Court: I'll strike the answer. Are you asking her if that's the reason she gave on the form?
Mr. Mesereau: In the deposition, Your Honor.
The Court: I think you need to make that clear. It's not clear.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I will do that.
Mr. Mesereau: Ms. Arvizo, in your deposition in the J.C. Penney case on Monday, December 18th, 2000, you had admitted you had filed a state disability claim, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Years prior.
Mr. Mesereau: You said you filed a claim for depression, true?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You were asked if your marriage had caused depression. Do you remember that?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you those pages?
Janet Arvizo: No. But if it's on there, it's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You were asked was it your marriage, and your answer was, “No, I was just sad about being a nobody”, correct?
Janet Arvizo: And I'm still a nobody.
Mr. Mesereau: In your effort to obtain money in that lawsuit, you didn't want anyone to think you had had any depression from -- caused by David, correct?
Janet Arvizo: That's incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last see Brad Miller?
Janet Arvizo: When did I last see Brad Miller?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: When he was standing right next to -- next to the camera, in the rebuttal video. Right there. Here's the camera. Here's Brad Miller. Right there. I think. That's my best remember -- my best recollection.
Mr. Mesereau: The interview with the DCFS was the morning after the rebuttal video.
Janet Arvizo: Oh, that's right. He did come afterwards and -- that's -- go ahead.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Brad Miller at the meeting with the representatives of the Department of Children & Family Services?
Janet Arvizo: No, he wasn't present there when they were there.
Mr. Mesereau: So was the last time you saw him, that you can recall, where you did the rebuttal video? Was that the last place you saw him?
Janet Arvizo: He did come afterwards, after the ladies had left. The ladies were no longer in my apartment. He did come afterwards.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your idea to have the DCFS interview at Major Jackson's home?
Janet Arvizo: I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Why?
Janet Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you living at Major Jackson's home --
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: -- when you had that interview?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you represent to the social workers from the DCFS that that was your home?
Janet Arvizo: No, I told them this was my boyfriend's home.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell him that your children ever stayed there?
Janet Arvizo: I did tell them that we visited there.
Mr. Mesereau: Was your intent to make them think that's where your children lived?
Janet Arvizo: Absolutely not. They know where I lived. I lived in East L.A. on Soto Street. They knew that.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, I believe you told the jury that at that interview was someone named Azja Pryor, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Azja Pryor, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Azja Pryor at the time, as far as you knew, was actor and comedian Chris Tucker's fiancee, right?
Janet Arvizo: At that time that's what I felt. They do have a baby together.
Mr. Mesereau: And her baby was there for the interview, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And after the interview was over, you drove somewhere with Azja Pryor, didn't you?
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever drive with Azja Pryor anywhere after the interview?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Azja Pryor ever drive you to Neverland at any time?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How often did you used to talk to Azja Pryor during this time period?
Janet Arvizo: Often.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you call her?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would she call you?
Janet Arvizo: We're talking about a friendship that had gone on for years. So can you specify the time period?
Mr. Mesereau: Sure. Let's say between January of 2003 and April of 2003.
Janet Arvizo: Okay. Prior to Neverland, it was back and forth phone calls. During Neverland, it was -- there was no return phone call that she can call me back on.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Miss Pryor ever driving your children to Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When was that?
Janet Arvizo: That was right after the CPS interview, when Asaf had escorted Azja and the children to the car. And they were being followed.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ask -- Move to strike the comments.
The Court: Denied.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ask Miss Pryor to drive your children to Neverland after the DCFS interview?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know why she did that?
Janet Arvizo: That was already prearranged.
Mr. Mesereau: How was it prearranged?
Janet Arvizo: Well, it was already in a conversation prior, per Frank's instructions.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever ask Azja Pryor for the keys to Chris Tucker's car?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did Davellin ever do that?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever being in a call with Davellin where you and Davellin asked Azja Pryor to the keys to Chris Tucker's automobile?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall discussing going to Brazil with Azja Pryor?
Janet Arvizo: Like I had told you, remember those conversations that I would have and try to slip something in? So at the end of the -- all these people could put this puzzle together as to where me and my children were finally at.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall telling Azja Pryor that you were excited to go to Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall inviting Azja Pryor to go to Carnaval in Brazil with you?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: When's the last time you saw Azja Pryor?
Janet Arvizo: I think it was the CPS meeting. I think that was the last day.
Mr. Mesereau: I'd like to ask you some questions about some of the interviews you gave the sheriffs in Santa Barbara, okay?
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm just going to go through those interviews. You indicated in one interview that you were studying to be an orthopedic technologist, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was that true?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And where were you doing that course of study?
Janet Arvizo: I was doing that at a vocational school in Orange County.
Mr. Mesereau: And what years did you attend there?
Janet Arvizo: I attended approximately in 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you finish that course?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How long did you go to school there?
Janet Arvizo: Probably summer and attempted to try to finish fall.
Mr. Mesereau: You mentioned to the sheriffs that you knew Carol LaMere, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. That's David's girlfriend.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, before you thought she was David's girlfriend, you knew her in another capacity, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, David and I both knew her.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you know her?
Janet Arvizo: Through -- she doesn't like to call herself grandmother, but she actually is the grandmother to -- to one of the children that was taking tap dance lessons where my children were.
Mr. Mesereau: And you met her at that school, correct?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you stay in touch with her for any length of time after you met her at that school?
Janet Arvizo: David did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Davellin ever stay at her house, to your knowledge?
Janet Arvizo: Davellin stood, I think, when Gavin had gotten ill, I think for less than one month. And I came to find out that all she wanted Davellin was to clean her house. And so I put a stop to that.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, how many evenings did Davellin stay at Carol LaMere's house?
Janet Arvizo: I can't remember. But the best one who could remember that would probably be Davellin. We're talking five years ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if she spent weeks there?
Janet Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you often know if she was going to stay there?
Janet Arvizo: Of course.
Mr. Mesereau: Would she ask your permission to stay there?
Janet Arvizo: No, she didn't want to go to her house anymore. And I came to find out is because all Carol wanted her was to clean her house.
Mr. Mesereau: But you don't know approximately how many nights Davellin stayed at Carol LaMere's home, right?
Janet Arvizo: No. Please. My son had cancer, I....
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately what year Davellin was staying at Carol LaMere's home?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, this was when Gavin had cancer, in 2000.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell Azja Pryor that your family was being held against their will?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When was this?
Janet Arvizo: I think -- I think it was during the hotel period. That's the best I can remember. I -- I tried to reach different people.
Mr. Mesereau: And you specifically remember telling her that you were being held against your will?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember ever asking her to call the police?
Janet Arvizo: No. That was another thing I slipped in, and I was always hoping that these people would call themself. This way the call didn't come from me. Quick slip-in.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, during the DCFS interview, Azja's present at Major Jackson's home with three social workers from Los Angeles, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You never say anything about your being held against your will, correct?
Janet Arvizo: That's correct. Because Asaf had already told me -- he already had warned me prior to them -- the ladies coming in.
Mr. Mesereau: You saw Major Jackson when you arrived that morning, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah -- I think so. But it was a new relationship with Jay, and he was a -- now he has softened up, but back then was very completely organized.
Mr. Mesereau: The first time you visited Neverland, did you tell the jury you didn't know where your sons were the first evening?
Janet Arvizo: Which -- are you talking the police report?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as vague.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it if it's unclear.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: The first time you, your husband and your son -- excuse me, you, your husband and your children visited Neverland, do you remember when that was?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that?
Janet Arvizo: In August of 2000.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember where your son stayed that first evening?
Janet Arvizo: In Michael's house.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you know they were staying in Michael's house?
Janet Arvizo: Because Gavin had asked.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you hear Gavin ask?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately where he made that request?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he make that request at the dinner table, to your knowledge?
Janet Arvizo: You know, I -- I can't remember that part.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you --
Janet Arvizo: We're talking five years ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have any discussion with Michael Jackson about where your sons were going to stay that evening?
Janet Arvizo: I didn't -- he didn't talk to me. I didn't talk to him. It was David talking to Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: So as far as you know, the first night you were there, your sons were staying somewhere in the main house, but you didn't know where, right?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you assumed that David knew where; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: I assumed that children stay with children. That's what I assumed.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see your sons the next day?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ask them where they had stayed that evening?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't. They had told me that they had played, and that was good.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you then stay at Neverland a second night?
Janet Arvizo: I think so. Yes. Yes, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your belief that your sons stayed in the main house that night?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, they did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see them the next morning?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ask them where they had spent the evening?
Janet Arvizo: No. I didn't -- now I know a lot of things. Now I know --
Mr. Zonen: Objection; nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you stay at Neverland a third night during that first visit?
Janet Arvizo: I don't remember how many days we stayed there, but I know it was just days. And that's it. You're going to walk me through each room -- I mean each door, each day, and I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you think you stayed more than two nights at Neverland during that first visit?
Janet Arvizo: Definitely more than two, but definitely less than -- less than a week. It was just days. But I can't remember, it was five years ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever at any time ask your sons during that first trip to Neverland where they had spent the night?
Janet Arvizo: No. No, I didn't. But I've learned things now --
Mr. Zonen: Objection; nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: In one of your initial interviews with the sheriffs, you talked about Michael Jackson giving a big gift for Gavin, which was a car, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. It looked exactly like the O.J. Simpson truck.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it an SUV?
Janet Arvizo: It was -- it was an old car. It looked like just the O.J. Simpson Bronco thing.
Mr. Mesereau: It wasn't a Bronco, was it?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, no. No. That's incorrect. Thank you. You're right. It was a laptop computer. The truck came afterwards.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I'm focusing on just the truck. Okay?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. Because you had mentioned the truck, so --
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you said it looked like Mr. Simpson's Bronco, but it was really a Chevy Blazer, wasn't it?
Janet Arvizo: No. I think it was a Ford Bronco.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point, didn't you refuse to return the registration to that car?
Janet Arvizo: I didn't have no registration.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever keep any of the papers associated with that car?
Janet Arvizo: No, a VIN number.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell the sheriffs in any interview, “I have the papers associated with that car”?
Janet Arvizo: I have papers that -- I wrote down the VIN number.
Mr. Mesereau: Anything else?
Janet Arvizo: No, that's it.
Mr. Mesereau: You were upset that that Blazer was returned, weren't you?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You never were upset?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever think it was wrongfully kept by Mr. Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: No. What I thought was wrong is that they wanted Gavin to come back alone to pick it up, that's what I thought. That was the uneasy part.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever complain to anyone that, “Michael Jackson said he would repair the car and we never saw it again”?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't complain. That was just information that -- the police wanted to know every detail, so that was the best I can recall. And we're talking about in 2001. This is four years ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some point, you said that Mr. Jackson gave your son a laptop computer, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know approximately when that was?
Janet Arvizo: That was the first visit that we had gone to in August of 2000.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you actually see that computer?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was that returned at some point also?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling the sheriffs that you had kept the VIN number and registration?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. Now I know the difference. It was only VIN number. The paperwork of the VIN number. That's all.
Mr. Mesereau: So when you said “registration”, it was a mistake?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. It's VIN number, that big long number.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And you also complained about Michael's people taking the computer back, correct?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't complain. I had just made them aware, that's all.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you say you made them aware, who were you talking about?
Janet Arvizo: The police.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: Because they wanted every detail that I can possibly remember, so it was just information.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You never complained to any sheriff that the computer had been returned when it really belonged to Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: No. It was information.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: Oh, okay.
The Court: Take our morning break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Ms. Arvizo, you mentioned to the sheriffs in one of your initial interviews that Michael had sent gifts to Gavin, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what gifts do you recall Michael Jackson sending to Gavin when Gavin was ill?
Janet Arvizo: When Gavin was ill?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: Go through the whole list?
Mr. Mesereau: Sure. Whatever you can remember.
Janet Arvizo: The best I can remember is the computer, the -- I think it was a Bronco - I just have a picture of it - white, Christmas gifts, and that was all, when he was sick.
Mr. Mesereau: And what --
Janet Arvizo: That's the best I can remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember anything being delivered at the hospital for Gavin from Michael Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, a big gift basket.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember toys like Play Station 3, things like that, being delivered to Gavin for Michael?
Janet Arvizo: Okay, I was incorrect in saying Play Station 3. It was a Play Station 2, and that was during Christmastime.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that all the gifts you remember Gavin ever receiving from Michael Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: This is the best I can remember, when Gavin was sick.
Mr. Mesereau: When Gavin wasn't sick, do you remember other gifts being given?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Michael would send things through -- through like a courier, messenger, something like that, give baskets, and was saying, “I love you, Gavin”.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling the sheriffs that when Michael Jackson gave those gifts and those messages, you assumed he was trying to cure him, because Gavin was ill? Do you remember saying that?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't think that's exactly correct how you're saying it. But I feel when Gavin was sick, there were just things that were get-you-well gifts, I guess, I don't know. The only thing that made me uneasy was --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; move to strike.
The Court: Overruled. And you interrupted her answer.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling the sheriffs Michael Jackson would leave messages at your home for Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. He would leave -- what kind of messages? Phone messages?
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah. He'll say things like, “I'll never forget you”, and things like that, right?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. The best I can remember, Gavin had his own private phone number, own answering machine, because his room had to be sterile. And Michael knew that it was his private -- private phone line. And that's where Michael would leave the phone messages.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told the sheriffs when you were discussing those messages, referring to Michael Jackson, “He's saying it out in the open. You know, you know, he's saying it probably because he's ill, trying to cure him”. Do remember that?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. That again is my own cluelessness.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
The Court: The part after “Yes”? After “Yes”, is that --
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. I'll strike it.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you learned at some point that Star, your son Star, had done a video at Neverland with Mr. Jackson, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you learn about that video?
Janet Arvizo: I think in Miami. That's when I learned that.
Mr. Mesereau: And have you ever seen that video?
Janet Arvizo: I've never seen that video.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When Star was at Neverland making that video, did he ever discuss it with you?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You've described your first trip to Neverland, okay? When was your second trip to Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: I think it was the -- Azja and Chris's baby boy's birthday party that Azja and Chris took their -- almost their entire whole family. He had them flown in from Atlanta, Georgia.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that trip?
Janet Arvizo: That was approximately -- I think it was early September in 2002.
Mr. Mesereau: After your first trip to Neverland, your children went back with David on a couple of occasions, did they not?
Janet Arvizo: Not my children. My two boys. They went -- do you want me to say?
Mr. Mesereau: Sure.
Janet Arvizo: Okay. The initial visit, the best I can remember - always, please, dates, best I can remember - is August 2000. And then both my boys returned with David to Neverland. Davellin did not return. Davellin stood with me. So --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Your Honor, we have lodged with the Court a transcript of the Brad Miller interview, and I believe it's Exhibit 5008.
The Court: Thank you.
The Clerk: Is it received into evidence?
The Court: No.
Mr. Mesereau: During -- let me get this straight now. You went the first time with David and your children, and there were a couple of times after that that David just took your sons, correct, to Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: It was one other time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was there just one other trip with David and the sons alone?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And when do you think that was?
Janet Arvizo: That was right after, also.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long a trip was that, if you remember?
Janet Arvizo: The best I remember, it was also -- it was also days.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know where your sons stayed, during that trip, in the evening?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't. The best -- you can probably ask the boys.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever ask them yourself where they had stayed during that next trip with David?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever ask David where they had stayed during that trip?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Before 2003, how many times did you personally visit Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Before 2003?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: Before 2003, best I can remember was the initial visit that I went. I think it was August 2000. And then with Chris and Azja's baby boy's birthday party in early September 2002.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, during Chris and Azja's birthday party, Mr. Jackson was not present, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Mr. Jackson was not present.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you stay in the guest quarters?
Janet Arvizo: Not at all. It was only a day visit. It was a birthday party. That's all it was.
Mr. Mesereau: You came in that morning and left that evening?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some point your children are at Neverland when the Bashir documentary was filmed, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall approximately when that was?
Janet Arvizo: Approximately -- this is the best I can remember. Gavin had done -- had a biopsy done on his kidney. Then the baby boy's birthday party. And then the film that I now know -- am aware of.
Mr. Mesereau: How did your children get to Neverland when the Bashir documentary was filmed, if you know?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Michael picked them up from my East L.A. apartment. He had a driver, and then they went over there. They stood the night, and they came the next day.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Chris Tucker introduce you to other celebrities?
Janet Arvizo: No. Not me. David, yes. And the children.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, what celebrities did Chris Tucker introduce David to?
Janet Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, what celebrities did Chris Tucker introduce your children to?
Janet Arvizo: I think one of them was Jackie Chan. And that's the best that I'm aware of. That's it.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Chris Tucker introducing your children to Mike Tyson?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, that's correct. Yes. Chris took the children to Mike Tyson's house.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, was it in Las Vegas?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, this was in Las Vegas.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you there during that trip?
Janet Arvizo: There's actually more than one trip there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you take more than one trip to Las Vegas with Chris Tucker?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you take any trips to Las Vegas with Chris Tucker?
Janet Arvizo: One.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the trip when your children met Mike Tyson?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet Mike Tyson?
Janet Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you at some point meet Louise Palanker?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did you meet Louise Palanker?
Janet Arvizo: Through the comedy camp. Through Jamie.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point do you recall Louise Palanker writing a check for $10,000 to you?
Janet Arvizo: What time period are we talking about? At any time?
Mr. Mesereau: Sure.
Janet Arvizo: This was when Gavin had become ill.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall that check being written to Janet Arvizo?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I became aware of that.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall it being deposited into your mother's account?
Janet Arvizo: It was cashed through my mom's account.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you cash that check?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you endorse that check?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I think I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you recall at some point a second $10,000 check being written by Louise Palanker to David Arvizo?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall that check being deposited into your mother's account?
Janet Arvizo: It was cashed through my mom's account.
Mr. Mesereau: At that point in time, did you have any bank account?
Janet Arvizo: At that point in time, no, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: At that point in time did David have any bank accounts?
Janet Arvizo: No, he didn't. Well, actually, I think -- no. The best I can remember, no, I don't think so. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: At that point in time, had you set up any bank account for Gavin's benefit?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point did you set up a bank account for Gavin's benefit?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know when that was?
Janet Arvizo: I think that was in -- the best I can remember, maybe October. Maybe November. That's the best I can remember.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you personally deposit money into that account?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was that money that you raised at The Laugh Factory?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that money that you got from fund-raisers for Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: With -- attached to The Laugh Factory?
Mr. Mesereau: No. Let me rephrase the question. The money that you deposited into the account you set up for Gavin, do you remember that account?
Janet Arvizo: I -- I don't think I personally deposited things. They were deposited.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. That was an account set up at -- was it Washington Mutual?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was across from The Laugh Factory, wasn't it?
Janet Arvizo: Pardon me?
Mr. Mesereau: Was that bank near The Laugh Factory?
Janet Arvizo: There's Washington Mutuals everywhere.
Mr. Mesereau: Was this particular branch near The Laugh Factory where you opened the account?
Janet Arvizo: No, it wasn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Where was it?
Janet Arvizo: The best I can remember, it was -- it was done, I think, in -- well, near the Hollenbeck Division.
Mr. Mesereau: And you made deposits for the benefit of Gavin, right?
Janet Arvizo: I think the majority of them, they were deposited on their own.
Mr. Mesereau: So people went to the bank and deposited money on their own into Gavin's account?
Janet Arvizo: I think so, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever deposit any money into that account for Gavin's benefit?
Janet Arvizo: The best I can remember, I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, when the $10,000 check that Louise Palanker wrote to you was placed into your mother's account, you say that it was basically -- cash was taken out immediately; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: The best I can remember, I think there had to be a waiting period or something like that. And then it could be cashed.
Mr. Mesereau: And you endorsed the check, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you get some of the money?
Janet Arvizo: No, everything was handed to David. David loved having the sense of authority, and I was like his personal secretary.
Mr. Mesereau: So you're saying none of that money went to your benefit, right?
Janet Arvizo: It was -- like I said, David had the authority. I was like David's personal secretary.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you're telling the jury that you never spent any of that money for yourself, correct?
Janet Arvizo: I'm telling the jury I was as -- like David's personal secretary.
Mr. Mesereau: Did any of that money go to the benefit of Gavin, to your knowledge?
Janet Arvizo: I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know so?
Janet Arvizo: I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: You're not sure?
Janet Arvizo: No, I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What do you think it went to?
Janet Arvizo: I --
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Janet Arvizo: I think it went to credit cards, to food, to -- just different things. Whatever David would instruct me to do.
Mr. Mesereau: And the second $10,000 check that Louise Palanker wrote was also --
Janet Arvizo: I was talking -- I was referring to both.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: So it's going to be the same information.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Let me just go through the second one, make sure. Louise Palanker wrote the first check for $10,000 to Janet Arvizo. It was deposited for cash, and you believe it was spent on matters related to Gavin, correct?
Janet Arvizo: No. There was -- Louise Palanker, there was no strings attached. It was just to the family.
Mr. Mesereau: And you're not sure whether -- what that was spent on. You think credit cards, right?
Janet Arvizo: We're talking five years ago. And the best I can remember, it was to the family, and I did everything that David instructed me to do.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me ask you about the second $10,000 check from Louise Palanker.
Janet Arvizo: Again, I'm lumping both of them. Because it was both the same thing.
Mr. Mesereau: So as far as the second $10,000 check goes, you pretty much did what David asked you to do with the money, right?
Janet Arvizo: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And other than credit cards, you're not that sure what it was spent on, right?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You think maybe food, right?
Janet Arvizo: I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: And whatever David kept for his pocket.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never kept any for your pocket, right?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you employed at that point?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I was.
Mr. Mesereau: And where were you working then?
Janet Arvizo: I was a waitress.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Where was that?
Janet Arvizo: The Bonaventure Hotel.
Mr. Mesereau: And is that when Gavin was in the hospital?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you work there full time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you learn at some point about some fund-raisers that went on at The Laugh Factory for the benefit of Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: I came to find out everything afterwards.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know those fund-raisers were going on when they actually happened?
Janet Arvizo: I don't think so. We're talking five years ago.
Mr. Mesereau: So you're not sure whether you knew they were even going on when they happened, right?
Janet Arvizo: No, I would find out afterwards.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, were you in touch with Jamie Masada at this point in time?
Janet Arvizo: Just a little bit.
Mr. Mesereau: Was he a friend of yours at that point in time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, he is a friend of mine. And he was a friend of mine at that point.
Mr. Mesereau: And he still is a friend of yours, right?
Janet Arvizo: He still is a friend.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And you had met him when your kids were going through the comedy camp, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You knew him to have assisted Gavin when Gavin was ill in the hospital, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You were in touch with him at that point in time, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: But you're not sure if you knew when these fund-raisers were going on?
Janet Arvizo: That's correct. I would find out afterwards. And not because David told me, but because Jamie would tell me.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Fritz Coleman, the newscaster, helping with any fund-raiser?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall David -- excuse me. Do you recall George Lopez ever trying to help Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Knew nothing about that?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Never met with him and thanked him for what he had done for your family?
Janet Arvizo: No. I thanked him through Ann Lopez, because Ann Lopez would pray with me on the phone.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet with George Lopez and give him a gift and thank him for what he had done?
Janet Arvizo: I had given him a mustard seed faith amulet, because he had told me that he had lost his key chain, so I had given mine, the one I would carry.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So when -- excuse me. When any fund-raisers were being planned at The Laugh Factory for Gavin, you were not involved, right?
Janet Arvizo: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And Jamie Masada didn't tell you what he was planning, right?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Louise Palanker never told you what she was planning, correct?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you don't even know who attended those fund-raisers, right?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Because you never discussed a fund-raiser with Louise Palanker, right?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Never discussed a fund-raiser with Fritz Coleman, right?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And never discussed a fund-raiser with Jamie Masada, right?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever speaking to someone at a local newspaper in El Monte about Gavin's illness?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who did you speak to about Gavin's illness?
Janet Arvizo: The best I can remember, I think her name was Christie. And she had expressed to me -- I felt sorry for her, because she had told me that -- she was an elderly lady and she was trying to start a new career and -- start a career in journalism, because she never had had the chance. So when she expressed herself like that, I went ahead and spoke to her about my son's illness.
Mr. Mesereau: So you were really doing her a favor is what you're saying.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you saying you were trying to help this person with her career; that's why you spoke about Gavin?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Argumentative and irrelevant.
The Court: Just a minute. I'll sustain the objection as argumentative.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall asking Miss Causer to put an article in her newspaper so you could raise money for Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: I think how this came about, if -- I'm trying to understand his question -- was I went ahead and spoke to her about my son's illness because the editor there is David's good friend of his sister, and it was David and his sister that went to this editor and brought this about. I purely wanted to speak to her only about my son's illness because she had expressed to me that she was an elderly lady trying to start a new career.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell this lady that it cost $12,000 per chemo treatment for Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: What I told this lady was that it was $1200 for the -- it's called Neupogen injections. Gavin had to have these injections right after chemotherapy. So when it appeared that way, it was a typo. They added an extra zero, first of all. And then second, I had expressed to her that continuously we're experiencing miracles, and that when -- that David had went to the -- to the -- where they were processing the Neupogen injections. They made him aware how much this would cost if it would have came out of anybody's pocket. But, no, at no time did I say it was costing us a single penny. So I told her basically that it was a miracle of God that it was being covered.
Mr. Mesereau: You're telling the jury that you told her it was $1200 for a treatment, and there was a typo that said 12,000?
Janet Arvizo: No -- that's correct. $1200 for the Neupogen injections, not for the treatment injections. And if you want to be completely -- that's part of his care.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see the article that appeared in the Mid Valley News?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ever complain about what was in the article?
Janet Arvizo: David said he was going to take care of it, because David's sister is the editor's real good friend, and David's sister and the editor and David had -- this is where that had originated.
Mr. Mesereau: You told Miss Causer that several celebrities were doing fund-raisers to help pay for Gavin's chemotherapy, didn't you?
Janet Arvizo: I think what I told her was that they were helping. And to me, “help” meant sitting by Gavin, feeding him the water -- the cantaloupe, things like that. That's what I meant by “help”.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell Miss Causer that various celebrities were doing fund-raisers to help pay for Gavin's chemotherapy?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you complain to Ms. Causer that the first article about Gavin did not mention the bank account at Washington Mutual?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ever complain to Miss Causer about the typo which said chemo cost 12,000 per treatment?
Janet Arvizo: David said he was going to take care of it because the editor was David's sister's good friend.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Miss Causer visiting your address on Ramer Street?
Janet Arvizo: She did come to where my son's sterile room was, and that would be my mother's home.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall her bringing a turkey?
Janet Arvizo: No, she didn't bring a turkey.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall anyone from that newspaper ever bringing you a turkey?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ever complain to anyone at that newspaper that a turkey wasn't enough. You wanted, in effect, money?
Janet Arvizo: That's incorrect.
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as to the content of an article as impeachment.
The Court: The objection is overruled. You may answer. She was interrupted. Have the question read back.
Janet Arvizo: I heard -- I remember it. It's incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: You do remember the article appearing, though, right?
Janet Arvizo: The one by -- the one that you guys encouraged to be put out there?
Mr. Mesereau: No, the one that you encouraged to appear in the Mid Valley News.
Janet Arvizo: The one that I helped the lady with, yes. But it didn't say nothing about no turkey dinner there.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you do anything to help arrange for any fund-raisers for Gavin at any time?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever ask anyone for any assistance at any time for Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point you said to the sheriffs you did not trust Chris Tucker, correct?
Janet Arvizo: He's taking that out of context.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as irrelevant, the question, and nonresponsive; move to strike.
The Court: The objection is overruled.
Janet Arvizo: Chris Tucker --
The Court: Just a moment. Read the question back to her.
The Court Reporter: At some point you said to the sheriffs you did not trust Chris Tucker, correct?
Janet Arvizo: That's incorrect. He's taking it out of context. Chris Tucker is a decent person. It was in response to afterwards, Chris Tucker was budding around with Michael afterwards. That's all that was referring to. I didn't trust, because he may have innocently communicated something to Michael, and since I already had -- was in the process of deprogrammizing my children from being brainwashed, that I didn't want Chris Tucker to communicate something innocently to him, and that was it. Chris Tucker has always been a decent person to my children.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
The Court: After “That's incorrect” is stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you indicated at one point that Brett Ratner -- excuse me. You indicated at one point that Brett Ratner met your family, true?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you personally meet Brett Ratner?
Janet Arvizo: I personally didn't -- was not introduced to him, but I knew that he was the director.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you learn who he was?
Janet Arvizo: Because Chris Tucker had pointed him out to me; that he was the director.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever met him to this day?
Janet Arvizo: I never was introduced.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever talked to him on the phone?
Janet Arvizo: I've never talked to him on the telephone.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know how many fund-raisers took place at The Laugh Factory to help your family?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know, as you sit here today, when any fund-raisers at The Laugh Factory took place for your family?
Janet Arvizo: As I sit here today how many?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when any fund-raisers took place at The Laugh Factory for your family?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Jamie Masada at the hospital when Gavin was ill?
Janet Arvizo: I think -- I think maybe once. I think maybe once.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ever discuss with Jamie Masada efforts being made to raise money at The Laugh Factory?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Fritz Coleman, the newscaster, visiting your home in East Los Angeles?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I do. This was before my son was ill.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you there during the visit?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I was there.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever aware at any time that Fritz Coleman had tried to raise some money for your family?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: When's the last time you saw Fritz Coleman?
Janet Arvizo: Let me see. I think the best I can remember was -- I think he was at the hospital and he was already leaving when I was arriving. I think that's the best I can remember. So it was a matter of just minutes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever speak to comedian George Lopez about Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when did you speak to comedian George Lopez about Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: I think -- I think when he first became ill, and then the next time when he was visiting Gavin. And that's -- I gave him the mustard seed amulet key chain.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever know anything about George Lopez trying to put together a fund-raiser for Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss with Louise Palanker ways to raise money for the family?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know why Louise Palanker wrote her first $10,000 check to Janet Arvizo?
Janet Arvizo: I think that's because David requested that way.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You don't know for sure, right?
Janet Arvizo: Well, I believe Wheezy, because she's the one that wrote the check for the money.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: “Wheezy” is Louise Palanker.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you the signatory on the bank account at Washington Mutual, which was set up for the benefit of Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: What does signatory mean?
Mr. Mesereau: Were you the one who would actually -- could sign to withdraw money from the bank?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. David requested it that way because David owed his brother in the thousands of dollars, so he wanted to point out to his brother Ray that I was the one that -- that's it.
Mr. Mesereau: Was he a signatory on that account, to your knowledge?
Janet Arvizo: No, he wasn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever withdraw any money from the account?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: How much do you think you withdrew?
Janet Arvizo: Well, everything that had always been put in.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember roughly how much was in there at any time?
Janet Arvizo: No. I can't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Were there thousands of dollars in there, to your knowledge?
Janet Arvizo: There was thousands. And I went ahead and gave all that information to the police and the D.A.'s Office.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever withdraw any money yourself from that account?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, of course I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you withdraw thousands of dollars from that account?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I sure did.
Mr. Mesereau: Was any of that money used for medical expenses?
Janet Arvizo: No, there was no need for medical expenses in the hospital, because everything was covered through Kaiser.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And were you ever aware that anyone donated money to that account to help with medical expenses?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you've told the jury you told someone at the Mid Valley News about $1200 per type of treatment, correct?
Janet Arvizo: And I was expressing to her that -- that thank God our family is experiencing a lot of miracles, and that was covered.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never mentioned the word “chemotherapy” to that person, true?
Janet Arvizo: I think I did. It was -- it was a little story about my son being ill.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever mention the cost of chemotherapy to Miss Causer?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Janet Arvizo: I think what I was telling her was a story complete about the miracles that we were experiencing. That's it.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know the article was going to be published?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see it when it was published?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did. And that's when David said he was going to take care of it.
Mr. Mesereau: And based on what you read, did you think it was a request for assistance?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, did you go with Chris Tucker to Knott's Berry Farm?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And did your children?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know when that was?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. They went with Chris, Azja, David and the children.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when that was?
Janet Arvizo: When Gavin was ill.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you talking to Azja Pryor on a regular basis at that point?
Janet Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When did you start communicating with Azja Pryor on a pretty regular basis?
Janet Arvizo: Our friendship -- probably -- it just grew very slowly, to the point where we were -- we were speaking almost -- almost maybe a few -- four times a week. But it started out very slow.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell Azja Pryor that all of the money that came from the fund-raisers for Gavin was spent on David's drug habit?
Janet Arvizo: I don't think so. It may have --
Mr. Mesereau: No?
Janet Arvizo: It may have probably -- I know the children and I had conversations with her. So --
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell Azja Pryor that the money from the fund-raisers for Gavin was spent on David's drug habit?
Janet Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know for sure?
Janet Arvizo: I'm for sure more towards I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Isn't it true that after you told Azja Pryor that the money for the fund-raisers was spent by David on drugs, she went to her bank and got a $600 check for you and the family?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Compound and assuming facts not in evidence.
The Court: I'll sustain the compound.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember Azja Pryor going to a bank and getting a $600 cashier's check for you and the family?
Janet Arvizo: He's incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever do that?
Janet Arvizo: You're letting me answer? Okay. Azja was leaving out of town to Atlanta, Georgia. She had told me -- I had -- me and the children had bought her, Chris and the baby some Christmas gifts. Azja then told me, “Janet, I don't have time for shopping. Please buy the children some Christmas gifts”. She's flying out -- out of town to go to Atlanta, Georgia. And that's what happened.
Mr. Mesereau: But you never mentioned to Azja anything about fund-raisers for Gavin, true?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You never mentioned to Azja that money from fund-raisers went to support David's drug habit?
Janet Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling Azja that David was taking money from fund-raisers for Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember having a discussion about fund-raisers for Gavin with anybody?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember receiving any money from Chris Tucker?
Janet Arvizo: I became aware of this afterwards, now, through the police investigation, that he had wired some money into the account.
Mr. Mesereau: Which account?
Janet Arvizo: The Washington Mutual.
Mr. Mesereau: That was the account you were a signatory on, correct?
Janet Arvizo: You've explained “signatory”. So it's still the same meaning the way you're using it, correct?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, it is.
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes. Which I withdrew the money and gave it to David.
Mr. Mesereau: And you're saying -- telling the jury under oath that you never knew Chris Tucker had wired that money into that account until the police told you?
Janet Arvizo: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when this was?
Janet Arvizo: Now, per the police investigation, I think it was -- I think it was in December or January. I think it was within those time -- months.
Mr. Mesereau: And you had received --
Janet Arvizo: And at that point, that's when Chris and -- David was going everywhere with Chris.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's the point in time where you were associating quite a bit with Azja, right?
Janet Arvizo: No, our friendship did not begin with Azja until -- until David was out of the picture. I hardly even spoke to Azja. My friendship did not begin with her until David was out of the picture.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did the 2,000 from Chris Tucker go, if you know?
Janet Arvizo: Well, yeah, I withdrew it and gave it to David, and that's when David had gone to Las Vegas.
Mr. Mesereau: So, to your knowledge, you gave that money to David and it wasn't used for the benefit of Gavin, right?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall any discussion with Azja or Chris Tucker about your family getting the use of one of Chris's cars?
Janet Arvizo: Okay, say that again.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall any discussion with Chris Tucker or Azja about your family using one of Chris's vehicles?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. I'm -- I don't know what he's asking.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as nonresponsive, or vague. She doesn't understand the question.
The Court: Overruled. I'll have the question read back.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
The Court Reporter: Do you recall any discussion with Chris Tucker or Azja about your family using one of Chris's vehicles?
Janet Arvizo: It's incorrect the way he's saying it. Chris -- Azja had her birthday. Chris had taken the children to go pick out a brand-new Mercedes for Azja. The children picked out the color for Azja, and Chris went ahead and purchased it. And that was Chris's gift, birthday gift, to Azja. And so the car that Azja was driving, months later, Chris and Azja gave it to me and the children for a Christmas gift, but I never have driven it. I don't have it. I don't have ownership of it. But that's what he's referring to.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever ask anyone if you could use that car?
Janet Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever complain to anyone that you were supposed to be able to own that car?
Janet Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you learn about the car?
Janet Arvizo: Well, because Chris had given me the keys and told me, “This is a Christmas gift. This is Azja's old car, but we -- Azja and me want you and the kids to have it”, because Azja had been given for her birthday a brand-new Mercedes.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't you complain to Azja that you had no car to drive?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't complain to Azja. It was okay for me. I drove -- I was on the bus continuously.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell Chris you needed a car to drive?
Janet Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: And never told that to Azja either, right?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever know why Chris Tucker would even discuss letting you use his car?
Janet Arvizo: He would never let me use his car. Like I said, he gave it to me and the kids as a Christmas gift, because it was Azja's old car that was just sitting in her driveway. No one had no -- no need for it.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did Davellin ever call Azja Pryor on your behalf asking for the keys to the car?
Janet Arvizo: No, Chris had already given me the keys.
Mr. Mesereau: And you think he just came over there one day and just said, “Here's a gift”?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know why Mr. Tucker was giving a gift of a car to you?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Asked and answered and speculative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Davellin telling Azja Pryor words to the effect, “I can't wait until you get another new car. Then I can have the Mercedes”? Do you recall that ever?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall complaining to Azja Pryor about the Germans?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. I made her aware. That's another thing I slipped in. I tried. I tried my best.
Mr. Mesereau: You told her you didn't like these German people around Michael Jackson, correct?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you did complain about them to her, right?
Janet Arvizo: I didn't complain. I made her aware. I tried to make different people aware so me and my children could get help.
Mr. Mesereau: You told Azja Pryor you didn't like the Germans, right?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
Mr. Mesereau: You never complained to Azja Pryor about being held against your will at any time, did you?
Mr. Zonen: I believe there was an objection, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh.
The Court: He changed the question, so --
Janet Arvizo: I made her aware that they were not letting us go.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did she ever do anything about that?
Janet Arvizo: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: After she drove your children to Neverland, did you speak to her?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you know your children got to Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Because they had -- Michael's people had tabs on them. They were being followed.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you know your children got to Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Because Frank told Vinnie and Vinnie told me.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ever tell it to Azja Pryor after she drove the children?
Janet Arvizo: No. On that day, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling Mrs. Pryor that you had errands to run and asked her to drive your children to Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Me?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you tell Azja Pryor about your friendship with Marie Nicole?
Janet Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever tell Azja Pryor you liked the Cascio children?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever talk with Azja Pryor about Miko Brando?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know who Miko Brando is?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who is Miko Brando?
Janet Arvizo: He would die for Michael. That's who he is.
Mr. Mesereau: Who is Miko Brando, if you know?
Janet Arvizo: I think --
Mr. Zonen: Objection; lack of foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: And relevance.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Janet Arvizo: I think I met him once. He had actually came to bring --
The Court: Just a minute. The question is, who is Miko Brando?
Janet Arvizo: He's one of Michael's damage control, personnel assistant. He has a lot of titles.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if he's related to the late Marlon Brando?
Janet Arvizo: This I became aware.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What did you become aware of?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as speculative; lack of foundation; and relevance.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet Miko Brando at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Once.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when was that?
Janet Arvizo: When he came to deliver Mr. Jackson some things.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding he was the son of Marlon Brando?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
Janet Arvizo: At that time, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever have a discussion with --
The Court: Just a moment. The objection is sustained. The answer is stricken. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever have a discussion with Miko Brando?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: But you met him, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And was it your understanding that he worked at Neverland?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Janet Arvizo: Okay. It was my understanding that he had multiple roles, multiple titles. One being damage control. Another one, positive PR. Another one personal assistant. He wore many hats.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling Azja Pryor that you had learned that Michael Jackson was not going on the Brazil trip?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember ever telling Azja Pryor that once you learned Michael Jackson was not going on the Brazil trip, you didn't want to go?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And it's your testimony you never discussed the Brazil trip at any time with Azja?
Janet Arvizo: I'm -- like I said to different people in the midst of the conversation, I tried to slip something in as to what was happening.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall complaining to Azja Pryor that Michael Jackson was making money on the Maury Povich show and your family was getting nothing?
Janet Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall commenting to Mrs. Pryor that a college fund was being set up for Gavin by Michael Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling Azja Pryor, “What good will a college fund do for my son? He may not be alive in ten years”? Do you remember saying that?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling Azja Pryor that you had not signed releases for the rebuttal video?
Janet Arvizo: He's incorrect. No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss the rebuttal video with Azja Pryor?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever complain to Azja Pryor that phone calls were being monitored at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: I informed her that the phone calls were being monitored. Like I said, I tried to make people aware of what really was happening in there.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you make your lawyer, Michael Manning, aware at any time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Michael Manning never called the police, right?
Janet Arvizo: That's right.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; lack of foundation.
The Court: Sustained. The answer's stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ask Louise Palanker if you could meet her at a Von's?
Janet Arvizo: I think I did. That's when I was in a period of -- a period -- in the Calabasas period.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ask Louise Palanker if you can meet her at her home?
Janet Arvizo: I think I did. I was trying anything possible to leave the grasp of him and his people.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know when you first met Bill Dickerman, the attorney?
Janet Arvizo: I think I met him approximately -- the best I can remember is the 25th, because it was the same day that I had that visit, and it was on the way to over there.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember complaining to Azja Pryor that you were being kept away from Michael Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever complain to her that the Germans were keeping you away from Michael Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: No. What I was telling her was that they were keeping -- maybe you're taking that out of context; that I wasn't able to see my children anymore.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever complain to anyone that the people around Michael Jackson were separating Mr. Jackson from you and your family?
Janet Arvizo: No, no. They were separating me from my children. By the end, I had no control of my kids anymore. I had lost them.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
The Court: Denied.
Janet Arvizo: Your Honor? I'm sorry, but I have to go to the rest room.
The Court: All right.
Janet Arvizo: I've been holding it here.
The Court: All right. Would you take her back there?
Mr. Mesereau: Can Mr. Jackson go as well?
The Court: We're not taking a break. Just to the witness. Let's see, Mr. Mesereau, maybe someone from the District Attorney on the hard drives, if you'll approach the bench. Maybe we could discuss that for a moment.
Mr. Mesereau: If I could, Your Honor, Mr. Sanger would --
The Court: Yes. Whoever. That's fine. (Discussion held off the record at sidebar.)
Janet Arvizo: Thank you.
The Court: Are you ready?
Janet Arvizo: Thank you.
The Court: Excuse me. Go ahead, Mr. Mesereau.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Ms. Arvizo, to this date, have you ever watched the Maury Povich rebuttal video?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever discussed it with anybody?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And did I hear you correctly that you said you had never actually watched the entire Bashir documentary?
Janet Arvizo: That's correct. In Miami I wanted to see it. Now I don't want to see it.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss the Bashir documentary with anyone?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you indicated that you saw Mr. Jackson licking your son's head on a plane, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told the jury you at first did not believe what you were seeing, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: After that flight, did you ever allow your children back to Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times?
Janet Arvizo: Well, the whole entire time until we permanently left in March.
Mr. Mesereau: If you can recall, how many times did you let your children go back to Neverland after you claim you saw your son's head being licked?
Janet Arvizo: The whole entire time until March.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many times would that be, back and forth?
Janet Arvizo: The best -- I can't remember, but we've already walked through that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you think it was four times you let your children go back to Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: They were there the whole entire time except for that time that Jesus had taken us out. Poor judgment on my part.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
Janet Arvizo: I know now.
The Court: Just a moment. Strike the last sentence. Go ahead.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it be safe to say you're not sure how many times your kids returned to Neverland after the head-licking incident?
Janet Arvizo: The only time my children were out -- out of their grasp was when Jesus had let -- taken me and my children to my mom's house. But the rest of the time, they were -- even if they were outside, Michael's people were still on my children. So if you want to get very specific, my children only made it out of there once. Because all the other entire time, Michael's people were on them.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times did they go back and forth to Neverland after --
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: He wasn't allowed to finish his question. Go ahead, Counsel.
Mr. Mesereau: Did your children go back and forth to Neverland after the Jesus incident?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Janet Arvizo: Okay. Except for that time with Jesus, the rest of the entire time, Michael's people were on my children.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first learn that Gavin claimed he'd been drinking alcohol at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: The day I never went back. That's the day. And it's burned in here.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
The Court: Denied.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know what day that was?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. I will never forget the date. It was March 10th. 4 a.m., to be exact.
Mr. Mesereau: You had never had any indication that Gavin had ever touched alcohol before that day, correct?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct. I know different now.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
The Court: Strike the last sentence.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling the Santa Barbara sheriffs in an interview, “There's plenty of police out there that can protect my kids”?
Janet Arvizo: He's --
Mr. Zonen: Vague as to time; objection.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first tell anyone that there were threats to kill your family from people associated with Michael Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: I think I -- I think the best I can remember -- the best I can remember -- let's see. The best I think I can remember is Mr. Dickerman.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that in a meeting with Jamie Masada?
Janet Arvizo: I don't remember that. I just remember being -- when I finally was able to say everything was with the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Offices -- officers.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately what month that was?
Janet Arvizo: I think -- the best I can remember, finally I think it was in July. I think. That's the best I can remember.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was after you had met with Larry Feldman, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: It was actually long after you had first met with Attorney Larry Feldman, right?
Janet Arvizo: My -- my meetings with Mr. Feldman, he couldn't make out -- we were basically all, you know, cuckoos after him. You know, it was all cuckoo. Our whole home environment was cuckoo. So he basically wanted to make heads and tails. He just basically wanted to help.
Mr. Mesereau: And your discussion about anyone threatening to kill your family first occurred long after you met Attorney Larry Feldman, true?
Janet Arvizo: I wanted to tell that to the sheriffs. I wanted to tell that to the police officers, let them be the first. I remember asking Mr. Dickerman that I wanted to share that information with the police.
Mr. Mesereau: And in none of Mr. Dickerman's letters involving your family did he talk about threats to kill, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Because I expressed to him that I wanted to tell the police, because that would have gave them the opportunity to see that I was trying to make contact with the police.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember going shopping while you were staying at the Calabasas Inn?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And tell the jury where you went shopping.
Janet Arvizo: I think it was -- I think it was an outlet store, and also a Robinson's-May. And this is what -- with their positive PR film crew following us.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained as to the last sentence.
Mr. Mesereau: While you were shopping, you didn't ever complain to anyone you were being held against your will, true?
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect. I called Wheezy.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you call the police?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: If you could call Wheezy, why couldn't you call the police?
Janet Arvizo: Because I couldn't. I was hoping she would.
Mr. Mesereau: Which phone did you use to call Wheezy?
Janet Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it a cell phone?
Janet Arvizo: I had no cell phone at that time.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it a phone in the hotel?
Janet Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it a phone at the shopping center?
Janet Arvizo: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't dial 9-1-1, did you?
Janet Arvizo: That's correct. But I have now.
Mr. Mesereau: After meeting with two attorneys, correct?
Janet Arvizo: He's incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: When you appeared for the Department of Children's & Social Services interviews, did you believe you, yourself, were being investigated?
Janet Arvizo: Can you be more clear?
Mr. Mesereau: Sure. Sure. When you had the meeting with the Department of Children & Social Services representatives at Major Jackson's home, did you believe you were being investigated?
Janet Arvizo: Um --
Mr. Mesereau: Yes or no, if you could, please.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you believe you were being investigated because someone had made a complaint about the Bashir documentary?
Janet Arvizo: All this I came to find out after the meeting. But before the meeting, I had no understanding whatsoever.
Mr. Mesereau: So you didn't know why you were there?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell the sheriffs that you were there because somebody complained about the Bashir documentary called “Living with Michael Jackson” and wanted the mother investigated?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I came to find this after.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember at the beginning of your interview with the Department of Children & Family Services you asked what your rights were?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And why did you do that?
Janet Arvizo: Because that was Vicki Podberesky's instructions.
Mr. Mesereau: Vicki Podberesky was the lawyer that you had spoken to, right?
Janet Arvizo: This is the attorney who put fear in me right before the video, and she claimed she was Michael Jackson's attorney and Geragos's attorney.
Mr. Mesereau: The fear she put into you was you better handle it properly or you could lose your children, correct?
Janet Arvizo: The fear that she put in me was that I could possibly have my children ripped away from me forever and probably won't see them for a long time. That's the fear she put in me.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell her you had been investigated on other occasions by the Department of Children & Family Services?
Janet Arvizo: No. Brad Miller, his P.I., dialed the phone number, gave me his cell phone, and there she was.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you speak to her?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, she spoke to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she give you advice about how to handle a meeting with the Department of Children & Family Services, to your knowledge?
Janet Arvizo: Because I declined - she wanted to be present - she had gave me information, and now I know why. They wanted all --
Mr. Zonen: Objection; nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: How long was your interview with the Department of Children & Family Services?
Janet Arvizo: Well, let me see. Asaf arrived there. He tape-recorded the meeting illegally, and then maybe a total of -- maybe a total of about -- maybe about, total, about 35, 30, 40 minutes. Because the time frame of Asaf tape-recording the meeting was about 20 minutes.
Mr. Mesereau: By the way, on one of your sheriff's interviews, do you recall saying that there are no clocks or calendars at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: What I remember was that -- what I was trying to communicate, that in my bedroom, I had no -- no -- none of these things in my bedroom.
Mr. Mesereau: You told them at Neverland there are no clocks, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Because I was in the guesthouse. For the end part of the time, I wasn't allowed to come out anymore.
Mr. Mesereau: Are there no clocks at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: On the ground, yes, there is.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, the people you claim were telling you that your family were going to be killed are Frank, Vinnie, Dieter, and Ron, right?
Janet Arvizo: Right. Ronald and Dieter were replaced by Frank and Vinnie. But the initial meeting was with Michael. Michael told me. But what started it off was Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: Telling you your family was going to be killed --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- is that what you're saying?
Janet Arvizo: First it was Gavin, and then it went to my three children, in Miami.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever telling a sheriff's investigator that Miller told you that Mr. Jackson was buying you a house and an apartment?
Janet Arvizo: I don't remember saying that.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you a page of the transcript of your interview?
Janet Arvizo: What I think he's referring is totally different. He's taking it maybe out of context. But, yeah, bring it on over.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What page is that, Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: It's nine of this interview. The interview is August 13th, 2003.
Mr. Zonen: Oh, thank you.
Janet Arvizo: Yeah. This is what I had talked to you about already; that we had to leave the country.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that page?
Janet Arvizo: I just looked at the highlighted words. I didn't read anything.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about what you told the sheriffs?
Janet Arvizo: That's because we had to leave the country.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell the sheriffs that Brad Miller told you that they were buying you a house and an apartment?
Janet Arvizo: What I was trying to point out to the police department was this is what they were trying to do in order for me to leave the country. And there's no house and no apartment, because I don't want to leave the country. And because they're lies. What I was trying to point out is they were using different tactics.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained.
Janet Arvizo: Because they wanted me out of the country.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; nonresponsive.
The Court: I had sustained the objection.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you think you were getting a house from Michael Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: No, I was pointing out to the police that they were trying to do everything possible to get access into my apartment, to go clean it up, to go remove all the letters and items that Michael had given Gavin. This is what I was trying to point out to the police. And second, that they wanted me and my children out of this country really bad.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell the jury that the plan was for you to go to Brazil and never come back?
Janet Arvizo: That's -- that's what their plan was ultimately. That they were going to decide -- depending if they did positive PR, cleaned all the mess for Michael, then they were going to decide at that point in time if I could return. “If”.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see any documents that said it was a two-week trip?
Janet Arvizo: That don't matter.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see any documents that said the trip to Brazil was a two-week trip?
Janet Arvizo: Don't -- and if you look at the documents, it's not going to be within the time frame that I was supposed to leave. They choreograph everything.
Mr. Mesereau: Did anyone ever mention to you in any form, verbal or in a document, that this was a planned two-week trip?
Janet Arvizo: No, it wasn't. I know that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see a document that said that?
Janet Arvizo: Never. But like I said, they choreograph everything.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So when you told the sheriffs that Brad Miller said they were buying you a house and an apartment, you were not suggesting you wanted one, right?
Janet Arvizo: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you tell the Department of Social Services that your children were being sent to a private school?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't. Vinnie himself, straight from his mouth, told Karen Walker.
Mr. Mesereau: That your kids were going to a private school?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. This is another lie.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you believe Vinnie when he said that?
Janet Arvizo: No. That's why I was behind Karen Walker saying, “No”. I was going like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that when you didn't tell Karen Walker you were held against your will?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you make some references in some of your sheriff's interviews to speaking in code. Do you remember that?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what code were you speaking in?
Janet Arvizo: This is what I've already explained to the jurors, is that in the midst of my conversations I'd try to slip something in, or I would say one word, say another sentence and say another word, hoping that when a person would sit or think, they'd say, “Wait a minute, that word doesn't match this”. I was constantly trying to leave clues for people.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you leave any clues for Major Jay Jackson when you stayed at his home?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I tried. I tried. Yes. When I finally left the nail shop, that's when I finally told him everything. Because Asaf had pointed out that there was another tape-recording being -- and Frank and Vinnie told me they can hear everything, so I believed them. I believed them.
Mr. Mesereau: So you believed Jay Jackson's phones were being tapped?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you believe the phones at the salon were being tapped?
Janet Arvizo: When I finally was able, I told him, “Come on over”, and then that was it. Permanently left Neverland forever, thank God.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you believe the phones at the salon were being tapped?
Janet Arvizo: No. That's why -- I didn't know what they could do. Because they said I was being constantly listened and monitored, so I went ahead and tried.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember visiting a federal building to get a passport?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who were you with?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie, the people that were following us.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember walking into that federal building to get your passport?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Vinnie and the people that were following us, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember speaking to anyone in that federal building as you got your passports?
Janet Arvizo: No. I just stood by Vinnie and the children, and that's it.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see any federal employees or agents in that federal building?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, and I wanted to reach for them so bad.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you complain to any of them that you were being held against your will?
Janet Arvizo: No, because at that point my parents' lives were at risk. And until I can see my parents and tell them what was the danger, I couldn't say a single thing. They had full control of me.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you complain to anyone in that federal building that any crimes were being committed against you or your family?
Janet Arvizo: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever try to dial 9-1-1 to reach any police officer?
Janet Arvizo: No. But I have now.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you're aware that in your family law proceeding, your ex-husband David claims that you sat down and scripted your children in the J.C. Penney case, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Amongst many things David has said.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever sit down and rehearse your children about what to say in depositions in the J.C. Penney case?
Janet Arvizo: He's giving me too much credit. No.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did your children always tell the truth when they testified under oath in the J.C. Penney case?
Janet Arvizo: Except for the part about David.
Mr. Mesereau: What about the part about your injuries? Did they tell the truth, to your knowledge?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, that was when -- that was a situation where Gavin was caught running out of the store with something that wasn't paid for, correct?
Janet Arvizo: This is what I came to understand, because I wasn't present when that happened.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told the police that Gavin was just trying to trick his father into paying for those goods, right?
Janet Arvizo: No, I did not tell them that.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you tell them the reason Gavin did that was?
Janet Arvizo: At that point, when I talked to the police, I had -- I wasn't aware of what happened.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn that that was the reason why Gavin left the store with unpurchased goods?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I came to find out afterwards. The police told me themself.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did you ever learn about an incident with George Lopez where there was a claim that money had been taken from Gavin's wallet?
Janet Arvizo: I came to find out afterwards by Jamie.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you talk to George ever about that event?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever talk to his wife about that event?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever talk to David about that event?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever talk to Gavin about that event?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you told the sheriffs that Mr. Jackson's people had done background investigations on Jay Jackson. Do you remember saying that?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you know that anyone associated with Mr. Jackson had done a background investigation on Jay Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: His dear damage control people and Frank told me that.
Mr. Mesereau: They told you they had checked out who Jay Jackson was?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, Frank told me that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you were aware that Mr. Geragos's employees were doing investigations into who you were and Jay Jackson --
Janet Arvizo: No, you're incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: -- was, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Frank had told me that they had done all this information so they can choreograph their story. That's why.
Mr. Mesereau: In that recorded phone conversation you had with Frank which we played on Friday, you never mention anything about killers, do you?
Janet Arvizo: I'm sure I did. And since he had control of that, illegally taping, I'm sure they either erased it, manipulated it or took it off. But if it was left to me, I would have left it on there. But it didn't benefit him to leave it on there.
Mr. Mesereau: You never mention killers in that recorded phone conversation, do you?
Janet Arvizo: I'm sure I did. But Frank had control of the tape.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall a blood drive at Neverland for Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I was the one responsible for that. Anywhere where I can gather 50 people or more, Kaiser was willing to go and take their own bloodmobile, because it benefitted not just Gavin, many, many children and hospital patients. So I was continuously asking for anybody that can gather more than 50 people, that Kaiser themself would go over there.
Mr. Mesereau: And Mr. Jackson allowed you to use his property for a blood drive, correct?
Janet Arvizo: All his employees gave blood. All of his employees that wanted to could donate blood. Not just to Gavin, but to many people, because they were trying to find O negative, C and B negative blood for Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, Mr. Jackson allowed you to do this blood drive on his property, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, this is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was this blood drive?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, when Gavin was ill in 2000.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: But, you know, he wasn't the only one. There was many church groups. Many, many people that had gathered. And the bloodmobile would go out to those particular places.
Mr. Mesereau: At one point you told the sheriffs that you didn't think Michael was really involved in that, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, and I've also communicated to you. In the beginning, I thought it was only the Germans, but now I know different per their hard work, investigative working, that it was different.
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as nonresponsive and also object to the question as vague. Involved with what?
Mr. Mesereau: I can rephrase it, Your Honor.
The Court: Well, now the time to object to the question is long gone, but I'll sustain the objection to the last part of the answer. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you work with someone named Grace at the blood drive for Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't work there. All I had done was ask Grace if she could ask permission, because like, remember, that's another indicator that I didn't talk to Michael himself.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember complaining to the sheriffs in an interview about Michael Jackson, “Here's a man that has so much wealth, and yet did not even hire my children a single tutor when they're supposed to be in school”. Do you remember complaining about that?
Janet Arvizo: I didn't complain to him. I was trying to point out to the police that these were the things that now I'm aware of that he really didn't care about children. He just cared about what he was doing with the children.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember saying that to the sheriffs?
Janet Arvizo: Like I said, I gave him information. Everything possible that I could possibly do to let them know that the children -- all this time had passed, and they were not educated.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, how much time are we talking about where you think Michael Jackson should have hired a tutor for your kids?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't think he should have tutored -- hired a tutor. I think -- I think he should have just let me and my kids go.
Mr. Mesereau: When you said to the sheriffs, “Here's a man who has so much wealth, and yet did not even hire my children a single tutor when they're supposed to be in school”, what were you referring to?
Janet Arvizo: That he's managed to fool the world, and I was one woman inside there. That's what I was communicating; that what he puts out in the world is not who he really is. Now, because of this criminal case proceedings, now people know who he really is.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
The Court: Denied.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you done any investigation into Michael Jackson's actions around the world for children?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: It's not argumentative, but it's not material.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: We'll take our morning recess.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: All right. Mr. Mesereau, you may proceed.
The Bailiff: Turn your microphone on, please.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh, I'm sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Arvizo, when the prosecutor was asking you questions about the Brazil trip, he showed you an itinerary, which is in evidence. Do you remember that?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: It's a typed itinerary giving departure and arrival times, correct?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And he showed it to you. Do you remember that?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you identified it as something you were aware of, right?
Janet Arvizo: I came to find out after.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, the itinerary says you're leaving Los Angeles for Sao Paulo, Brazil, on March 1st, 2003, right?
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: It says you're returning from Sao Paulo, Brazil, to Miami on March 6th, 2003, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And it says you're leaving Miami for Los Angeles on March 7th, 2003, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: That was the itinerary you were shown about the trip, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see any plane tickets that were actually purchased for the trip?
Janet Arvizo: No. Just like my visa and passports.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never discussed that trip with anyone other than who, Frank and Vinnie?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct. Frank, Vinnie, and the initial meeting, in that 45-minute meeting where Michael said if things got so bad we would have to leave the country.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never told Jay Jackson about the Brazil trip?
Janet Arvizo: I didn't tell Jay anything until when I permanently left Neverland. That's when I told Jay.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you tell Jay Jackson you had gotten passports?
Janet Arvizo: I told Jay everything after we came out of -- permanently out of Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell Jay Jackson you'd gotten a visa?
Janet Arvizo: I told Jay everything after we had left permanently out of Neverland. That's the best I can remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some point, you must have met with, it appears to be Vinnie, and filled out some of those documents, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie never left our side the majority of the time.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me?
Janet Arvizo: The majority of the time, Vinnie never left our side.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you sit down with him and fill out the documents so you could apply for a visa?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know where he got the information that went onto those forms?
Janet Arvizo: They had already studied me. They already had acquired all the information they wanted, needed.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever sign any forms; do you know?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did. Yes, I signed them.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did you sign those forms?
Janet Arvizo: I think -- the best I can remember, I think actually there at the facility.
Mr. Mesereau: Which facility is this?
Janet Arvizo: Where they were doing the -- where they were doing the -- processing it.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that a federal facility, to your knowledge?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it is.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you sit down and do -- work that out with Vinnie? Is that how it worked?
Janet Arvizo: It was already filled out by Vinnie.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you and your children sit down with him and sign anything, to your knowledge?
Janet Arvizo: No, we didn't sit down.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you -- what I think you're saying, and correct me if I'm wrong, you completed those documents at the federal facility, right?
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that incorrect?
Janet Arvizo: That's incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Where did you just tell the jury you sat down to finish those forms?
Janet Arvizo: Never sat down. Vinnie had already all that information pre filled out. All I did was sign it. And that's the best I can remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And then you took a trip to the -- was it a consulate you went to?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: What buildings did you go to to get your passport, visa, and all the documents you needed to take this trip to Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: Everything was done in steps. First it was the birth certificate. Then the passport. And then the visa.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know how many buildings you went to to get all this done?
Janet Arvizo: Three different buildings.
Mr. Mesereau: And which -- identify those buildings, if you can remember.
Janet Arvizo: The birth certificate, the passport and the visa place.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it always you, Vinnie and your children?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, plus the people that were following us. They never left our side.
Mr. Mesereau: Did these people that you have not identified who were following you ever enter the buildings?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, they did.
Mr. Mesereau: So they were just mixing in with the crowds in the buildings?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And is that what prevented you from ever telling any officer or employee, “Help us, we're being kidnapped”?
Janet Arvizo: Mostly because my parents' life were now in danger.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you told the sheriffs at one point you thought your family might disappear in a hot air balloon from Neverland, correct?
Janet Arvizo: He's taking it out of context. I had informed the police that -- that Frank and Vinnie had expressed to me that they had many ways to -- and also Ronald and Dieter, remember, and Ronald and Dieter were replaced by Frank and Vinnie, and that they had many various ways to make my children disappear. And I was expressing it, but he's minimizing it.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell the sheriffs that you thought your family might disappear in a hot air balloon from Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: Again, he's minimizing it. I told him what I told the police what Ronald and Dieter, Frank and Vinnie had said; that they had various ways to make -- transporting my children and making them disappear. And what was most terrifying is when it was towards the end, now they had the passport, plus visa.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever mention a disappearance in a hot air balloon? Yes or no.
Janet Arvizo: I made them aware that they had a variety of ways of getting my children out and that was one of them. This isn't me. This is what your Frank and Vinnie said, plus your Ronald and Dieter. So I'm just communicating to the police what I was told.
Mr. Mesereau: And some of them -- somebody mentioned to you disappearance in a hot air balloon, right?
Janet Arvizo: This is one of a variety of ways.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you said you went to the child support hearing, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Your lawyer, Michael Manning, was there, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And the night before, you stayed at Major Jackson's, correct?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And the night after the hearing you stayed at Major Jackson's, correct?
Janet Arvizo: The night of the hearing, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never complained to anyone at the courthouse about these problems you've identified, right?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And I think you told the jury, correct me if I'm wrong, that you never told Jay Jackson about these problems either the night before the support hearing or the night after it, right?
Janet Arvizo: The night of March 10th.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct. I told him that night everything.
Mr. Mesereau: You told him the night of the hearing?
Janet Arvizo: The March 10th, which was the day before the hearing.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: You know, Counsel, I'm going to ask you to refrain from saying, “You told the jury. You told the jury”. Everything that she says here she told the jury.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: It's just an improper reference on your behalf. You ask her for the facts, and they'll listen to it.
Mr. Mesereau: I will do that, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: You appeared at a hearing in this courthouse on September 17th, 2004. Do you remember that?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, this is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And at that point in time, you were represented by Attorney Larry Feldman, true?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you the transcript?
Janet Arvizo: I think what I'm clear on, he was helping us every time something was happening.
Mr. Mesereau: I asked you, “You are represented currently by Mr. Feldman, correct?” And you said, “Yes”, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when you first hired Attorney Dickerman, one of the things you wanted him to do was stop any use of your children's likeness or photos in any media-type event, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you say earlier that you were involved in a proceeding in England against Bashir that you didn't know about?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct. Mr. Dickerman came to find out afterwards.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as nonresponsive beyond, “This is correct”.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you saying that you were a party to a lawsuit in England that you knew nothing about?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Speculative; lack of foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you find out that you were represented by a lawyer in England in a lawsuit against Bashir and his company?
Janet Arvizo: That Michael was involved in.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry, excuse me?
Janet Arvizo: That Michael was involved in. I came to find out this.
The Court: The question was when. When did you find out?
Janet Arvizo: Oh. Summer. In about the summer.
Mr. Mesereau: And what summer was that?
Janet Arvizo: 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you come to learn that some statements had been attributed to you in some British newspapers about the Bashir documentary?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I came -- I came to find out a lot of things through this investigation, what they were doing.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see a document that was titled “Recommended Statement by Janet Ventura to the UK Sunday Telegraph”?
Janet Arvizo: I don't know what you're talking about. But I know that Ronald and Dieter were heavy at work.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know if they were preparing any statement to be released quoting you?
Janet Arvizo: I came to find out that Ronald and Dieter were using my children, like Michael was using my children. Everybody was exploiting and using my children. Now I've came to find out many things.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And let me rephrase the question. Did you ever find out that anybody had prepared a statement attributed to you to be released to a British newspaper?
Janet Arvizo: I gave no authority, no interviews, no nothing.
The Court: Just a minute. He's asked you --
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
The Court: -- two or three times if you know about a statement. That's the only question he's asked you. Do you or not?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have any communication during the first three months of 2003 with an attorney named David LeGrand?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever even hear his name during that period?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you first learn about an attorney named David LeGrand?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. Michael had called over the 60 Minutes, Ed Bradley. This was all part of the choreography. And Dieter pointed this out, and Ronald over the telephone, that this interview was never going to take place. It was just per Michael's choreography. And that Ed Bradley was a dishonest man and they were using him for their choreography. And David LeGrand's purpose -- Michael's attorney was there as part of their choreography, to let them know that this interview was not going to take place. He was used. That's what happened.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you -- I'm sorry, go ahead.
Janet Arvizo: No, it's okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell anyone to include the following words in a recommended statement by you to the Sunday Telegraph newspaper in England --
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: -- “The relationship that Michael has with Gavin, Star and Davellin is a beautiful, loving father, son and daughter. He is their Daddy Michael. And to me and my children, he is our family. He cares for them as a good, loving father. Michael is their only father figure who loves and cares about them. They are not fatherless, because they have their Daddy Michael. My family consists of unconditional love”. Did you ever tell anyone to use those words?
Mr. Zonen: May I see the document, please, Your Honor?
Mr. Mesereau: Sure.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever give words to that effect to anyone to be used in a statement by you?
Janet Arvizo: I think I'm recalling something. Remember how they put those two -- that page that had, like, two signatures on there? And I told you that one of my -- them, one of them was my signature, but it had been moved, I can tell, because of where it was.
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as nonresponsive to the question of whether or not she used those words.
The Court: I'll sustain that objection. But I'm going to ask counsel to simplify the question a little bit. It's a little cumbersome the way it stands.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
Janet Arvizo: Here it is. There it is. Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that document?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes, I have.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to read those words?
Janet Arvizo: This is where they took my signature from.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you had a chance to look at it?
The Court: Just a minute. Just look at the words that counsel wants you to look at. Would you show her which paragraph you're --
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes, yes.
The Court: You're showing her two paragraphs?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor. I am. Well, I'm showing her --
The Court: Which one are you going to ask her the question about?
Mr. Mesereau: I'm showing her one sentence in one paragraph and a -- well, it's really one, but there's some handwritten stuff that I'm asking her to look at.
The Court: Well, you need to address with her what you're trying to show her so that she can answer any questions.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, could we mark this item as an exhibit?
The Court: No. He was refreshing her memory with it.
Mr. Mesereau: Ms. Arvizo, I'm just asking you if you know where the following words came from.
Janet Arvizo: Yes, from Dieter.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: Dieter had -- they added that second paragraph right now. But all it was was --
The Court: Just a minute. There's no question pending.
Janet Arvizo: Oh, okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay? Do you remember the words I read?
Janet Arvizo: No, you didn't read any.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Let me just read them and see if you know where those words came from.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay? “The relationship that Michael has with Gavin, Star and Davellin is a beautiful, loving father, son and daughter. He is their Daddy Michael. And to me and my children, he is our family. He cares for them as a good, loving father. Michael is their only father figure, who loves and cares about them. They are not fatherless, because they have their Daddy Michael. My family consists of unconditional love”. Have you heard those words before?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. This is when -- when Mr. Zonen was doing his -- when he was speaking with me, I had told you that my signature had been moved, because Dieter had a pre -- preprinted paragraph, and then in my -- in my own writing, he had me write something. So, yes, that is right before we left Miami.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, if you knew about this, did you know about the lawsuit?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: So you did know about a statement that was supposed to be attributed to you to appear in a British newspaper, right?
Janet Arvizo: No. No, no, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whose writing that is that I just showed you?
Janet Arvizo: This is my writing that I've already told the jurors.
Mr. Mesereau: So you wrote those words, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, per Dieter's dictation.
Mr. Mesereau: You wrote those words on a statement to be released Friday, February 7th, 2003, correct?
Janet Arvizo: No. It wasn't a statement that was going to be released. What Ronald had done -- Dieter had told me that what Ronald had done did not work to appease the killers. And there's that phrase, and that's a quote.
Mr. Mesereau: And there's a heart that's written in between the printing, and that's a heart that you wrote, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And then you see “XOXOXO”, meaning “Love”, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. That's --
Mr. Mesereau: And that's your writing, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah. That's correct. I used to be that kind of person. Now I'm like this (indicating) hold up. I'm putting one hand over my heart.
Mr. Mesereau: And your writing is inserted into a printed statement, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. They have -- by the way, he's shown me the paper. That bottom paragraph was not there.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you saying that you wrote these words and put a heart and put “XOXOXO” in Florida?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And does the date February 7th, 2003, sound right to you?
Janet Arvizo: It must be right.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And the printed portion of the statement says, “I am appalled at the way in which my son has been exploited by Martin Bashir and Granada Television”, correct?
Janet Arvizo: That's what Dieter had written.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's the way you felt, right?
Janet Arvizo: No. They had told me that this would -- what Ronald had did does not work and this would appease the killers. So I was fooled.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, are you saying you didn't know this was to be released in England?
Janet Arvizo: Exactly.
Mr. Mesereau: And you're saying you didn't know that there was going to be a lawsuit in England in which you, your children, and Mr. Jackson were going to sue Bashir and Granada Television?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct. Money doesn't buy happiness. That's why when I found out through Mr. Dickerman --
Mr. Zonen: Objection; nonresponsive.
Janet Arvizo: -- I put a stop to it.
The Court: Sustained. There's no question pending.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see an article that appeared in a British newspaper the next day, February 8th, 2003, that quoted you?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever talk to anyone who claimed to represent a British newspaper at any time?
Janet Arvizo: I think -- I think when those two people that had came before we left to Miami that had scared my parents, and they kept saying, “Gavin, cancer; Gavin, cancer”.
Mr. Mesereau: Ms. Arvizo -- oh, sorry. Miss Arvizo, did you ever tell anyone that you were living in a stable with hay and horses in Bakersfield?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever say anything to that effect to anyone?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear or learn that you were quoted as saying that?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah. I came to find out a lot of things.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you find out that you were quoted as saying that you and your family were so poor you were living in a stable with hay in Bakersfield?
Janet Arvizo: Just recently. I've never lived in Bakersfield.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn that Jamie Masada had quoted you as saying that?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as lack of foundation and assumes facts not in evidence that Jamie Masada said she lived in Bakersfield.
The Court: Sustained; foundation.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, the document that you just admitted adding language to, was that presented to you at the hotel in Florida?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it was.
Mr. Mesereau: And you read that before you inserted all these words?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't. I completely trusted them.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know it was supposed to be a recommended statement by you?
Janet Arvizo: What?
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know the document you were inserting words into was titled “A Recommended Statement” by you?
Janet Arvizo: No. I didn't read it. I completely trusted them.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, why would you add language to an already existing paragraph if you didn't know what was in the paragraph?
Janet Arvizo: Because Dieter dictated that. Everything was -- at that point was like a state of panic. That's how Ronald and Dieter were behaving.
Mr. Mesereau: So you just filled out what you were told to fill out and never read a thing, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I completely trusted them. I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me get back to what you told the social workers on the 20th, okay? You told them, “My children are never solely alone with Michael Jackson”, true?
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't tell that to them?
Janet Arvizo: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: And let me remind you --
Mr. Zonen: Objection; no question pending.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the social workers, Mrs. Arvizo, “There's always someone around”, right?
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: You told them, “When we go to Neverland, we are always around people”, right?
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: You said, “Sometimes I stay in the visitors' quarters, but mostly I am in the main house”, right?
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: You said, “Gavin, Star and Davellin have all been in Michael's room”, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: You said, “Yes, Gavin and Star have been with Michael on his bed watching T.V”., right?
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the social workers, “As to the allegations that they share a bed, it is no”?
Janet Arvizo: What?
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell that to the social workers?
Janet Arvizo: Repeat that, please.
Mr. Mesereau: The words are, “As to the allegations that they share a bed, it is no”.
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect. These social workers, all they were interested was not being sued by Michael Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained.
Janet Arvizo: They didn't have --
The Court: Just a minute. There's no question pending.
Janet Arvizo: Okay. Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: In that interview with the social workers, you said, “There are always children in Michael's room”, right?
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the social workers, “On or about September 15th, 2002, the day in question, Gavin and Star were in Michael's room watching T.V. and they made s'mores in a fireplace in Michael's room”?
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: Never said anything like that to the social workers?
Janet Arvizo: No, no. They didn't even have no pad or pen with them when they were sitting at the kitchen table.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the Los Angeles social workers, all three of them, that, “Michael slept on the floor with blankets and a sleeping bag while Gavin and Star slept in the bed”, right?
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the social workers, “I'm usually up walking around the house all night long”, right?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the social workers, “The room is open and there are no doors to shut”, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the social workers, “It makes me sick that someone would accuse Michael of doing harm to my son and other children when he has never been anything but wonderful”. You said that, didn't you?
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the social workers, “He has been like a father to them”, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Told the social workers, “My children have never felt uncomfortable in his presence”, right?
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the social workers, “Michael has been a blessing”, right?
Janet Arvizo: Huh-uh.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the social workers, “I was not aware that the taping with Mr. Bashir would be aired”?
Janet Arvizo: That I did.
Mr. Mesereau: You told them, “We did not sign any consent to have my children on this interview”, right?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You further told them, “When my children would go to visit Neverland, there was always somebody present”, right?
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: You told them, “On several occasions, Michael's friend, Chris Tucker, and his family were there”, right?
Janet Arvizo: I informed them that my children had been there, had had that visit that I've already expressed to you over and over.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the social workers, “In September of 2002, Chris Tucker accompanied Gavin, Star and Davellin in Neverland Ranch”, right?
Janet Arvizo: That's the birthday party that I was talking to you about.
Mr. Mesereau: You told them, “Our last visit to Neverland together was on February 19th, 2003”; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: You said, “The children are welcome there any time”, right?
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: You said, “I do not always go to Neverland with the children”, right?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You told them, “Michael is like a father to my children”, right?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You said, “He's like family”, correct?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You said, “He gives advice to my children, and that is something they never had with their father”, right?
Janet Arvizo: That is correct, because of the initial meeting.
Mr. Mesereau: You said, “He loves them and I trust them with him”, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. What a fool I was.
Mr. Mesereau: You said, “Michael is so kind and I feel that he is misunderstood”, right?
Janet Arvizo: “So kind”, but I didn't say “misunderstood”.
Mr. Mesereau: You further said, “Michael was an important part of Gavin's recovery from cancer”, right?
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: You said, “Gavin met Jamie Masada at The Laugh Factory about three years ago and made a wish to meet Michael Jackson”, true?
Janet Arvizo: No. I said Gavin had spoke to Jamie and said he was one of three people that he wanted to meet.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell them you felt that the paternal grandparents had deserted your children?
Janet Arvizo: Does that mean like David's family? I'm asking you if that's what it means. Unless you want to clear -- can you make it clearer, please?
Mr. Mesereau: All I can ask you is, did you say, “Mother feels that the paternal grandparents have deserted the children”?
Janet Arvizo: Oh.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as vague.
The Court: She's asked for a definition of “paternal”.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
The Court: She didn't use the word. It's not suggested she used the word. That's a conclusion of one of the social workers. So would you help her?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, I will, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, I think the way you've defined it would be correct.
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes. David's family didn't want nothing to do with my kids.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling those social workers the media has been taking everything out of context and you're appalled at the negative attention your children have been receiving?
Janet Arvizo: No. What I told her is that -- told them that I didn't understand what was happening.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell them that you've been having a difficult time personally and financially?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You told them about your prior involvement with the DCFS, right?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, yes. Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Your children were interviewed on that day, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you there when they were interviewed?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I was.
Mr. Mesereau: And just in summary, you heard them say glowing things about Michael Jackson, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, they did. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And at some point, you learned that this investigation was closed, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I came to find out.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when did you find out the investigation was closed?
Janet Arvizo: Well, when Jay and me paged Karen Walker after the Family Court day and we asked her for help. And she said, “It's out of my hands. It's out of my hands. We've already done the report. Go get legal help. I can't help you”. When I told her that my son had been given alcohol, that we were being held, that they were taped, gave her all this information, and she said, “It's out of my hands”, that's when I found out the report was done.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately what date was that?
Janet Arvizo: That was the 11th, March 11th.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you call her?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you file a report?
Janet Arvizo: Well, I spoke to the supervisor. She was the supervisor, Karen Walker.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you being represented by Attorney William Dickerman at that point?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first start being represented by Attorney William Dickerman?
Janet Arvizo: After she didn't help me.
Mr. Mesereau: He didn't write to the DCFS at any time, did he?
Janet Arvizo: No, he didn't. But Mr. Feldman did.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was, what, months later? To your knowledge.
Janet Arvizo: I can't....
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever read any of the letters Attorney Dickerman was sending to Attorney Mark Geragos?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, some of them I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you assist Mr. Dickerman in preparing those letters?
Janet Arvizo: I didn't assist him. I told him what was happening. He wrote them himself.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your belief that Mr. Dickerman was writing Mr. Geragos to complain about injustices that had been done to you and your family?
Janet Arvizo: What Mr. Dickerman was doing was giving us help, as retrieving our visa, our passports, everything that belonged to us. Where is my storage? Where is my items? Things that belonged to me. Requesting that my children's clothing be returned. Because when Frank rummaged through the children's clothing, he took all the new clothing that they had purchased. But when they were doing that, they also took my children's own clothing and kept all of Gavin's clothing. And Frank said that if they wanted them, they needed to come back to Neverland. Just different things like that. And for your people to stop following us, and to make you aware that we wanted nothing to do with you anymore.
Mr. Mesereau: In none of his letters did he ever mention anything about alcohol or child molestation, true?
Janet Arvizo: Because that was information for these guys right here, for the police.
Mr. Mesereau: How many months later?
Janet Arvizo: Because I didn't want Geragos to know that we were headed towards -- straight to the police.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know when you first met with Dickerman?
Janet Arvizo: I believe -- I think it was the 25th of February.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me?
Janet Arvizo: I believe I met him, but he was not my attorney, February 25th. Just met him for minutes. Minutes. That's it.
Mr. Mesereau: How many meetings did you have with Mr. Dickerman?
Janet Arvizo: Prior to leaving out of Neverland, once.
Mr. Mesereau: How about after you left Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: After I left Neverland? Well, all these -- in order to -- I think -- the best I can believe, I think it was two. It was two. That's the best I can remember.
Mr. Mesereau: How long did Mr. Dickerman represent you?
Janet Arvizo: Well, until Mr. Feldman and Mr. Dickerman kicked me to the curb because I didn't want to tell them all the information that I was telling the police. Because the police told me not to tell them because that would compromise the investigation. And so I didn't tell them nothing. Mr. Feldman was clueless, and so was Mr. Dickerman.
Mr. Mesereau: But you weren't speaking to the police until long after you met Larry Feldman, true?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, because I wanted to ensure that these people weren't following us anymore.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't go to the police until months after you first started meeting with Attorney Larry Feldman?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct. I wanted to just hopefully -- maybe we could have the ability to just -- maybe it would disappear. But the more things were happening, the more I was becoming aware.
Mr. Mesereau: So you had gone to at least two lawyers about your alleged problems with Mr. Jackson for months before you ever spoke to anyone with the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department, right, Ms. Arvizo?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, this is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And the first report of any allegation of child molestation to the sheriffs came from Mr. Feldman, did it not?
Janet Arvizo: Let me see. Well, actually -- actually, Mr. -- my husband, Jay Jackson, tried to reach the police. And then when me and -- me and Jay both contacted the supervisor, Karen Walker, then -- and she said to go get legal help. And also, as things are moving in dates, I'm starting to find out more and more. Now I know why he had a criminal defense attorney, but I didn't know because there was no investigation underway.
Mr. Mesereau: There had been an investigation since February that was publicly announced by Santa Barbara, right?
Janet Arvizo: Well, I wasn't aware of that.
Mr. Mesereau: You're claiming that in the middle of all of these efforts to falsely imprison your family, restrain your family, get you to Brazil, deal with the media, all of a sudden child molestation starts, right?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Argumentative and compound.
The Court: Sustained on compound.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember meeting with someone named “Bowen” from the DCFS?
Janet Arvizo: No. Is she the one, or he, that leaked all the information from the DCFS to everybody?
Mr. Mesereau: You remember meeting with three women from the DCFS on the 20th, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: And there was Karen Walker, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there -- Irene Peters one of the ladies?
Janet Arvizo: That sounds familiar.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Jacqueline Bowen?
Janet Arvizo: I don't -- I don't remember the -- all I remember is Miss Karen Walker, Jackie and someone named Yvonne. So I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: And you complained to Miss Peters about the Bashir documentary, right?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't. I told them that there was no consent. That's all.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were upset about that, right?
Janet Arvizo: No, I said there was no consent.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember complaining that you could not get any assistance from Michael Jackson regarding tutoring or home schooling because of all the media attention?
Janet Arvizo: No. That's incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember saying you were having a difficult time schooling your kids because of the media attention?
Janet Arvizo: That's incorrect. Because I reenrolled my children back into that school the second we finally got to leave Neverland permanently.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling Miss Bowen you were having a hard time contacting Michael Jackson in regards to helping with the tutoring due to the problems the children were having at school?
Janet Arvizo: That's incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: You never said that to Ms. Bowen of the DCFS?
Janet Arvizo: No, the meeting was so small with them, that I remember all they were interested was not being sued by Michael Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long was that meeting, if you remember?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. Well, let me see. Here we go. Twenty minutes -- about 20 minutes of Asaf taping it. So about maybe after that, maybe about ten minutes sitting with them. 10, 15 minutes. 15 minutes would be generous. So about a total of -- altogether maybe 30, 35 minutes, 40 minutes. 40 minutes would be a stretch. That would be making it generous. They came in there for one thing only. You know, one thing: Not to be sued by Michael Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as nonresponsive.
The Court: The last two sentences are stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember asking Karen Walker if she could talk to Michael's people to see if they could provide schooling for your kids?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember asking Miss Walker if she would write a letter on your behalf so your kids could get schooling?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you remember telling Ms. Walker you're not going to take a trip to Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: Do I?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: I made no mention to them of leaving the country. I made her aware afterwards, when Jay and I paged her, what they were trying to do.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some point, did you sign any documents which suggested your children should be taken out of their school?
Janet Arvizo: I -- not suggested. It was. I didn't sign the one for Davellin, which they had done before they had taken the children out. The one for the boys I did sign, because that was afterwards.
Mr. Mesereau: And the document you signed was designed to give your permission to take your sons out of school, correct?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And what school did you think they were leaving?
Janet Arvizo: I didn't know. I just did what they said. That's it. At that point, the end point, I was doing what they were saying. That's it.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; nonresponsive to the question.
The Court: I'll strike after, “I didn't know”.
Mr. Mesereau: During the point in time when you signed that document authorizing your sons to be taken out of school, did you talk to anyone at the school?
Janet Arvizo: At that time, no. I wasn't even present.
Mr. Mesereau: But clearly you knew your children were going to be leaving their school, right?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And what school did you believe Gavin was leaving?
Janet Arvizo: They were going to be nowhere. We were headed out -- out of the country. This was for their purpose of no one being able to trace my children nor me. We were headed out.
Mr. Mesereau: What school did you believe Gavin was leaving when you signed that document?
Janet Arvizo: Well, if it was up to them, they were going to be in no school.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, I don't believe the witness understands the question.
Mr. Mesereau: I can try to rephrase it, Your Honor, if it's unclear.
The Court: We'll just have the court reporter read it back. She hasn't said she doesn't understand. Read it back.
The Court Reporter: What school did you believe Gavin was leaving when you signed that document?
Janet Arvizo: Zero.
Mr. Zonen: I don't believe the witness understands the question.
Janet Arvizo: I don't understand.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll try to rephrase it.
Mr. Mesereau: You signed a document --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- authorizing the school to release Gavin as a student, right?
Janet Arvizo: Gavin and Star. The boys.
Mr. Mesereau: Which school were you talking about?
Janet Arvizo: That they were attending?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: They were attending John Burroughs.
Mr. Mesereau: And you knew that a document was prepared to allow Davellin to leave school, right?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know that Davellin was going to leave school?
Janet Arvizo: No. Davellin, I had no knowledge of.
Mr. Mesereau: So you thought you were going to Brazil, but you only thought Gavin and Star were leaving school?
Janet Arvizo: No, no. I signed that paper because they had me sign it.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did Gavin and Star actually leave that school?
Janet Arvizo: Well, they were checked out by Vinnie. I wasn't there. When I finally got permanently out of Neverland, I reenrolled them immediately into the same school.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, when you got out of Neverland at that point, you knew you were not going to be involved with Mr. Jackson ever again, correct?
Janet Arvizo: He gave my son alcohol. Please.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know that?
Janet Arvizo: He gave my son alcohol. That was enough for me. But as time progressed, I found out more and more and more. So no way, no way.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, as time went on, the story just kept getting bigger and bigger, didn't it?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Argumentative; asked and answered.
The Court: It's argumentative. Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know that Major Jay Jackson had asked for monetary compensation for your family from Frank?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know that Jay Jackson had said words to the effect, “You guys are making millions. And this family should get their proper piece of the action”?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; misstatement of the evidence.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Janet Arvizo: Okay. I've come to find out now. But, no, I didn't then.
Mr. Mesereau: So at that point in time, you never discussed with Major Jay Jackson your family's right to have any compensation if they appeared in a rebuttal video?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct. There was a new relationship with Jay.
Mr. Mesereau: And based on the fact that you now are aware of this, do you believe he kept you silent on that issue?
Janet Arvizo: I don't understand your question.
Mr. Mesereau: You're saying that Jay Jackson never told you that he approached Frank and said, “How much is the family going to get?”
Janet Arvizo: I'm aware now, because of the investigations, but I didn't know then. And that's it.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know at any time that Major Jackson was discussing the possibility of selling a story to a British tabloid?
Janet Arvizo: I think you're saying it incorrect. I barely found out as I've been up here. But the way he's saying it isn't the way it's been said to me by the D.A.'s Office.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know at any time that Major Jackson was in discussions with representatives of a British tabloid about the possibility of selling a story?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: He never discussed that with you at any time?
Janet Arvizo: No. Not at all. Till this day he still hasn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever have a discussion with Frank about your getting any home in the Hollywood Hills?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever have a discussion with Frank about the possibility of a college education for Gavin being paid for by Michael Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you believe your signature was forged on some documents making you a party to a lawsuit in Britain, right?
Janet Arvizo: My signature, per their investigation, is accurate. I signed a blank piece of paper in Miami that Ronald had presented to me. But that signature is mine.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever receive any communications from any lawyer regarding the lawsuit in England?
Janet Arvizo: After we were permanently out, Mr. Dickerman communicated to me that this was going on. And they even offered me money to stay in it, and I said no.
Mr. Mesereau: When you left the apartment on Soto Street, did you personally sign any documents that say you're going to leave?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever sign any documents involving rent that was owed or not owed?
Janet Arvizo: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever talk to the landlord and say you were leaving?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And was that Yolanda?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: And I -- this is another person that I tried to slip something in --
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
Janet Arvizo: -- leaving -- that I told her I was leaving the country.
The Court: Just a moment. Just a moment, please. Stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that Yolanda Lazalde?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. That's where I slipped in “I'm leaving the country”. This is another one of the people that I was trying to reach out to.
Mr. Mesereau: This was another one of your clues that you were leaving?
Janet Arvizo: Pardon me? Yes. Yes, it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, was Ramon Trujillo also the landlord?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you communicate with Ramon Trujillo that you were leaving the apartment?
Janet Arvizo: No, I had no communication with him.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You told Miss Lazalde that you were leaving the apartment, but gave no reason?
Janet Arvizo: I did not tell her that. I told her I was leaving the country, but that's it. Jay Jackson had went and paid my current rent.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did anyone other than Jay Jackson pay rent that you owed?
Janet Arvizo: No. It was from my funds that he went and did me the favor to go pay the rent, because I couldn't.
Mr. Mesereau: My question is, and it may not have been clear, are you aware of anyone other than Jay Jackson paying rent that you owed on that apartment?
Janet Arvizo: I came to find out, through that, what Mr. Zonen submitted into evidence, that they had done that. And then I also came to find out that Frank and Vinnie had said that this was a way for no one to start searching for where me and the kids might be.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at this point in time, you thought that Mr. Jackson, one of the best known people in the world, was trying to just kidnap your whole family, right?
Mr. Zonen: Object as argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: At this point in time, you thought Michael Jackson was arranging to kidnap your entire family, right?
Mr. Zonen: Objection to the use of “kidnap”; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Janet Arvizo: All I know is what I saw and what I knew. They were making me, my children leave the country. That's all I knew.
Mr. Mesereau: You were leaving the country for one week, right?
Janet Arvizo: No. Till they decided when. And as long as I did what they told me.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know someone named Katie Bernard who worked at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, are you aware of Katie Bernard driving you to the spa in Los Olivos when you had the wax?
Janet Arvizo: That was Chris Carter.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't recall Katie Bernard doing that?
Janet Arvizo: No, it was Chris.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you aware of a Katie Bernard ever dropping you off the next day to have your hair done?
Janet Arvizo: Never happened.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling Katie Bernard how good Michael Jackson had been to your family and what a great guy he was?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't even know Katie Bernard.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Are you aware of Katie Bernard paying for your spa treatment?
Janet Arvizo: No. And it was a leg wax.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever call Katie Bernard and ask her to arrange for Gavin and Star's braces to be removed by a dentist?
Janet Arvizo: No. That was taken care of by Frank and Vinnie.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell Katie Bernard that you were being hassled by a Los Angeles dentist for payment and you wanted her to arrange to have your two sons' braces removed?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell Katie Bernard you wanted her to return the braces to the L.A. dentist because you couldn't afford to pay for them?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember ever calling Katie Bernard and saying you wanted to go shopping for clothes while you were at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever know someone at Neverland named Rafael Camacho?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Rafael Camacho occasionally driving you to places off the ranch property while you were staying at Neverland?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as lack of familiarity by the witness. She says no, she doesn't know him.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether or not anyone who worked at Neverland ever drove you to various places off the ranch property while you stayed at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: No. They even made me miss Ash Wednesday, and I had never missed it before.
Mr. Mesereau: Who's “they”?
Janet Arvizo: Michael's people.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ask for someone to drive you to church on Ash Wednesday?
Janet Arvizo: They knew I wanted to go to church. But at that point, that was it.
Mr. Mesereau: But did you actually ask for someone to drive you to a local church on Ash Wednesday?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Who did you ask?
Janet Arvizo: I asked Frank and I asked Vinnie, and they said no.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever know someone named Modesto Camarena at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever know someone at Neverland named Hector Elenes?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know someone at Neverland named Francisco Fuentes?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever complain to Francisco Fuentes that you were struggling financially?
Janet Arvizo: I don't even know Francisco Fuentes.
Mr. Zonen: I'll so object as lack of foundation.
The Court: Lack of foundation; sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever know someone at Neverland named Tammy Gewehr, G-e-w-e-h-r?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever know someone at Neverland named Gayle Goforth?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever know someone who worked at Neverland named Maria Gomez?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever tell Maria Gomez that you thought Frank and Vinnie were separating you from Michael Jackson?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Lack of foundation, that she knows this person.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell anyone at Neverland that Frank and Vinnie were separating you from Michael Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell anyone at Neverland that you had financial problems?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever know someone who worked at Neverland named Curtis Gordon?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever know someone at Neverland named Patty Hankins?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Chris Hernandez?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Ryan Hester?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever know someone who worked at Neverland named Anthony Hudley?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever know someone who worked at Neverland named Charlie Kirchhoff?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever know someone who worked at Neverland named Julio Magana?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't. But I remember when I had called to Neverland to make contact with my kids, because I was already out, I asked him his name and he said his name was Julio. So that was it. But that's the name. It sounds familiar.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know someone who worked at Neverland named Christy Mann?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever know someone named Shane Meredith?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: During any of your trips to Neverland, did you ever meet someone named Samuel Moreno?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet someone named Jonathan Bruce Richards?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet someone named Manuel Rivera during your trips to Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: During your trips to Neverland, did you ever compliment Michael Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever complain to anyone that you wanted your children on television with Michael Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you did argue with Ronald Konitzer at Neverland, right?
Janet Arvizo: I didn't argue with him.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever argue with Dieter?
Janet Arvizo: I didn't argue with them.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever know someone at Neverland named Brian Salce, S-a-l-c-e?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever know an employee at Neverland named James Silva?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: While you were visiting Neverland, did you ever meet Javier Velasco?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell anyone at Neverland that your children loved Michael Jackson like a father?
Janet Arvizo: No. Once at Neverland, all that stopped. Especially when he's running around like crazy with my kids.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever complain to Javier Velasco that Michael Jackson had promised to take care of you, and you knew now it wasn't going to happen?
Mr. Zonen: Lack of foundation that she ever knew Javier Velasco.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever complain to anyone at Neverland that Michael Jackson had promised to take care of you, and now you knew it wasn't going to happen?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever meet someone named Angel Vivanco?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever know someone named Jason Wolcott at Neverland?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet someone named Christian Robinson?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. He's the one that did the -- the rebuttal video. He's the one that had the scripted questions and you could even see him holding it. And he's the one that also picked up mine and my children's birth certificate.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when you say “scripted questions”, do you mean he had the questions in advance that he was going to ask you on the rebuttal video?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. That's my understanding. I may be wrong.
Mr. Mesereau: And were they the questions you believe he was asking you when you filmed the rebuttal video?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you first meet him?
Janet Arvizo: Right there.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that at Hamid's house?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the first time you had ever seen him?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that would have been the -- what, the day of the 20th?
Janet Arvizo: The day of the 19th, going into the 20th. From 19th, about 11-something, till like a.m. hours of the 20th.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately what time do you think you met Christian Robinson?
Janet Arvizo: Oh, well, when I got there.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did someone tell you whose house you were going to?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Vinnie.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you knew it was owned by someone named Hamid, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. And also Frank on the phone.
Mr. Mesereau: Your understanding was that the purpose of that video was to make Michael Jackson look good, right?
Janet Arvizo: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you knew for quite a while that efforts were being made to put together a television show in response to the Bashir documentary, right?
Janet Arvizo: That's what I came to find out. And I wanted no part of it, and that's why I left with Jesus, me and my children.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear your sons say to Mr. Robinson they wanted to be famous on the T.V. show?
Janet Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: When is the last time you saw Christian Robinson?
Janet Arvizo: It was just that day. That's it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, do you remember when you testified before the grand jury, you were shown a number of documents involving expenditures that were made for you and your family at one point by Frank and Vinnie?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, this is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you were in the grand jury room, you did acknowledge that what was on those documents had been spent for you, Gavin, Star and Davellin, true?
Janet Arvizo: He's taking it out of context. Another thing: What applied to me and my kids was pretty accurate, but what applied to Frank and Vinnie, you're going to have to talk to them about it.
Mr. Mesereau: When you stayed at Neverland, it was your understanding that any costs involved were paid for by Michael Jackson, true?
Janet Arvizo: We were on his --
Mr. Zonen: Objection; vague. Costs involved with what?
Mr. Mesereau: I'll be happy to rephrase it.
Mr. Mesereau: When you and your family visited Neverland, you were often transported back and forth by someone that you thought was hired by Mr. Jackson, correct?
Janet Arvizo: We were not often transferred back and forth.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, how many visits do you think your family made to Neverland in total?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you get to Neverland the first time your family went?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled.
Janet Arvizo: How did we get there the first time?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: Which time?
Mr. Mesereau: Let me rephrase the question. Most of the time when you or your family went back and forth to Neverland, the transportation was arranged by someone at Neverland, true?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And it was your belief that this transportation was paid for by Mr. Jackson, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, this is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you mentioned someone named Evvy Tavasci whom you knew, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I never met her. It was only solely per the telephone.
Mr. Mesereau: You used to call her sometimes, didn't you?
Janet Arvizo: No, she called us.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever call her yourself?
Janet Arvizo: In returning her phone message.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever ask Evvy Tavasci to do anything for you or your family?
Janet Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Ever give her any ideas about ways Michael Jackson could help you or your family?
Janet Arvizo: Never. I had friends. If I wanted some help I could ask my own friends, and yet I never did.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever ask Evvy Tavasci to arrange any trip for you or your family?
Janet Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did she ever do anything like that?
Janet Arvizo: Well, she -- when Michael had contacted us for the Miami stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you traveled to Miami on Chris Tucker's plane, right?
Janet Arvizo: No, not Chris Tucker's plane.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you travel to Miami with Chris Tucker?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did. And that was per Evvy's arrangement. Evvy and Michael had called Chris and got him pulled into this mess.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you hear -- did you watch Michael Jackson call Chris?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever observe Mr. Jackson calling Chris Tucker at any time?
Janet Arvizo: Well, it's my understanding in Miami, and Chris had told me there at his house, that Evvy and Michael had contacted him. This is why I became aware.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever request to travel to Florida with Chris Tucker?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet anyone at Neverland named Julio Avila?
Janet Arvizo: I think I already said this.
Mr. Mesereau: You did not.
Janet Arvizo: They -- when I had called and I was already out of Neverland, I called wanting to speak to my kids. And the person that I was speaking to, I asked them what their name was, and they said their name was Julio. I think that's --
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever speak with anyone named Alex Byrne?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know who Alex Byrne is?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Nancy Catullo?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever speak to Nancy Catullo about setting up a bank account for Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Objection. No foundation she knows a Nancy Catullo.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever seek advice from anyone about setting up a bank account for the benefit of Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you spoke to Dr. Alex Farshshian, did you not?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet him?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did. But we weren't introduced. I just knew because I heard them calling him that.
Mr. Mesereau: He was the physician who was on the plane --
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- on the flight back from Miami, true?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I am aware of that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you exchange any words with him at all?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever meet someone at Neverland named Romero Ruvalcaba Garcia?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Gary Hearn?
Janet Arvizo: Gary Hearn, the extent of my conversations with him was when he would pick up the kids, and when he told us, “Guys, there's been a change of plans”, and he took us to Chris's house. So it's just -- he was a driver.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember him driving your family from Neverland and making various stops to buy things for you and your family?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: That never happened?
Janet Arvizo: That never happened.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever meet someone related to Mr. Jackson named Rio?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet someone related to Mr. Jackson named Simone?
Janet Arvizo: No. But I did see other children there.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know Arlene Kennedy?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I know Miss Kennedy.
Mr. Mesereau: And who is she?
Janet Arvizo: Miss Kennedy is someone that I got to meet. She's the owner of the tap dance school where my children had attended tap dances. I think my children only attended there for less than -- I'm being generous if I say five months. It was only months. But my relationship with Miss Kennedy and Mr. Kennedy continued. She'd come and pick me up and take me to like, for example, a Christian crusade to the Anaheim Convention Center. She'd come and pick me up and take me to a variety of churches in South Central. We'd pray a lot on the phone. She'd continuously come and pray for Gavin in the church. I mean, at -- at the hospital. And then we'd request churches to pray for Gavin. She took a trip to another country and she inscribed Gavin's name on somewhere where they could pray continuously. It's a place where they pray 24 hours. So my relationship with Miss Kennedy was mostly that of spiritual.
Mr. Mesereau: And she ran the dance school your children attended, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, for less -- my children -- for about five months, that's all. And that's the best I can recall. No more than five months. But my relationship with Miss Kennedy went on for years, and Mr. Kennedy.
Mr. Mesereau: And your children did attend the school on a scholarship --
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: -- because they didn't have funds, right?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: That never happened?
Janet Arvizo: That never happened.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you called her from Neverland Ranch, did you not?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did. This was another person that I tried to reach.
Mr. Mesereau: You called her after the airing of the Bashir video and said you were at the ranch because the press was causing problems, right?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You told Miss Kennedy that you wanted to get out of the country, correct?
Janet Arvizo: No. She would know, too, that there's no way, because she knows the extent of my son's medical needs. He needs medical care. I know he looks, on the surface, healthy, but he does have some serious medical issues.
Mr. Mesereau: You complained to Miss Kennedy that people around Michael Jackson keep everything from him and he doesn't have a clue about anything, correct?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never said that?
Janet Arvizo: Never said that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell Miss Kennedy that the people around Michael Jackson keep him in the dark?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Miss Kennedy telling you, “Go to Michael Jackson directly with these concerns”?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times do you think you called Arlene Kennedy from Neverland Ranch?
Janet Arvizo: I think maybe once.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you sure about that?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah. I think it was only once.
Mr. Mesereau: Only one time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: You called her many times and never indicated your calls are being monitored, right?
Janet Arvizo: No, I called -- I think I called her once. And when I knew that they were listening, I wouldn't be able to say that, when I felt -- but, yes, I did tell everybody possible when I could.
Mr. Mesereau: Now --
Janet Arvizo: Because I knew I was being monitored. I knew it.
Mr. Mesereau: I understand. You mentioned that you knew Carol LaMere, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. That's David's girlfriend and part of his damage control team in the past. She had to do something to reinstate herself, and this is it.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first meet Carol LaMere?
Janet Arvizo: At the dance school.
Mr. Mesereau: That was years before you ever met Mr. Jackson, wasn't it?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, this is correct. But she made it very aware.
Mr. Mesereau: For how many years did you know Carol LaMere before you ever met Michael Jackson?
Janet Arvizo: Let me see. I think my children attended tap there in -- my best recollection is maybe three years.
Mr. Mesereau: And at some point, your understanding is that Carol LaMere arranged for Mr. Jackson to speak to Gavin, right?
Janet Arvizo: My understanding is David has -- had and still has a very close relationship with Carol LaMere, extremely close. David would even go cook at her house. David would even go spend nights over there. And my understanding is that David was the one that communicated to me that Carol LaMere felt that she was the one that introduced Michael and Gavin, the family. And Jamie, I heard it from Jamie, that he felt it. So I never have known. It was either one of two people. That's how I feel till this day.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that Carol LaMere arranged for Mr. Jackson to provide your family with an automobile so that you could get to the hospital?
Janet Arvizo: I wasn't involved with that. All I know is that David and Carol LaMere were, and still are, very close.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know who first informed Mr. Jackson that you wanted an automobile so you could travel back and forth to the hospital?
Janet Arvizo: I didn't need an automobile. I didn't ask for an automobile. David and Carol LaMere were, and still are, very close.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first learn that Mr. Jackson had provided an automobile so you could travel back and forth to the hospital?
Janet Arvizo: When it was delivered to my mom's house. I knew it came from him.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever inquire as to why it was being delivered?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did Miss LaMere ever refer you to a woman named Nancy Catullo?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've indicated you knew Davellin was staying at her house, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Until I found out that all Carol wanted my daughter was to clean her house. That's it. A little housekeeper.
The Court: Let's take our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, the last document I showed the witness we've marked as Exhibit No. 5008. And I would move that it be admitted into evidence.
Mr. Zonen: Which document is that, Your Honor?
The Court: That's the document you showed her earlier to refresh her recollection?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. That's admitted.
Mr. Zonen: No objection.
The Court: You moved it in earlier, Counsel, yourself.
Mr. Zonen: Yes, I understand.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry, Your Honor, was that admitted?
The Court: Yes, it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh, it was. Oh, thank you. I'm sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: Ms. Arvizo, when did you last see Carol LaMere?
Janet Arvizo: I last saw Carol LaMere when she accompanied David to David's criminal domestic violence proceeding. That's when I last saw her. And they were holding hands.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell her that David did not provide for the family and you had no food?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell her that you had no insurance and needed money to pay Gavin's medical bills?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever tell Louise Palanker that David had threatened to kill you?
Janet Arvizo: I don't think so, but that is something that David always did.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me?
Janet Arvizo: That's something that, you know, was customary, part of his own violence.
Mr. Mesereau: He would always threaten to kill?
Janet Arvizo: But I don't think I told Wheezy that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell anyone that David often threatened to kill members of your family?
Janet Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever tell the police that?
Janet Arvizo: I don't think so. I told them what David would tell me, and that was about his brother Ray, but Ray had never done that, or said that to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet someone named Richard Ramey?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know Marian Arvizo?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah, that's the one that's friends to the editor of the Mid Valley News. And David, that's -- they're -- David and Marian are in cahoots about many things. Such as like the --
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry.
Janet Arvizo: I came to find out -- a lot of things.
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as exceeding the scope of the question.
The Court: Nonresponsive do you mean?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: How long have you known Marian Arvizo?
Janet Arvizo: The last time I seen Marian Arvizo was when she also went to David's criminal domestic violence proceeding. And prior to that, I hadn't seen Marian since, let me see, maybe when my children -- when my daughter was, I think, two years of age.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Marian Arvizo organizing some blood drives for Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear anything about that happening?
Janet Arvizo: No. All I know is that she's -- she's the editor's friend.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet someone named Mrs. Marie Triggs?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you aware of Mrs. Marie Triggs ever trying to organize blood drives for Gavin?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. No foundation that she knows the person.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Regardless of whether you know the person, did you ever learn that Marie -- someone named Marie Triggs had helped organize some blood drives for Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember ever complaining to Marian Arvizo that you didn't want her to arrange blood drives for Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever tell Marian Arvizo, “I don't need your blood. What I need is money”?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When did you last see Marian Arvizo?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Janet Arvizo: I already said.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever know of a blood drive being held in Claremont, California, for Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How about a blood drive being arranged through Von's warehouse where David used to work?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know -- I think I may have asked you. I'm not sure whether I asked this question or not, Your Honor. Do you know someone named Bruce Richards?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, while you were at Hamid's home, and before you began the filming of the rebuttal video, do you recall making some phone calls?
Janet Arvizo: No. I made no phone calls.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever being on the phone with anybody before the video was shot?
Janet Arvizo: No. The only -- when Brad Miller had dialed the phone and Miss -- Vicki was on there.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that at Hamid's house?
Janet Arvizo: This was at Hamid's house.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you only talk to Vicki Podberesky that one time?
Janet Arvizo: This is the one time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know Violet Silva?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, which employees at Neverland, other than Jesus and Chris, do you recall meeting?
Janet Arvizo: That's it. I gave the police every possible information that I could, and that's it.
Mr. Mesereau: I want to just clear something up that I said on Friday. The J.C. Penney settlement -- excuse me. Let me rephrase it. That agreement to settle was approximately September of 2001, right?
Janet Arvizo: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: When do you think you settled that case?
Janet Arvizo: When -- I think it was -- I know it was after David was arrested.
Mr. Mesereau: Actually, he was arrested five days after the agreement was signed, right?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. No, David was arrested. Then he was out on bail. And so -- no, it had to be after he was arrested. That's the best I can remember.
Mr. Mesereau: The agreement was signed September 24th, 2001, right?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. I may not understand what his -- the legal words is. I'm talking about the end result, the end result when the J.C. Penney's attorneys and Tower Records attorneys stood with my civil attorney, and that's what I'm talking about. And to my understanding, that's when the judge approved it. I don't know. So that's what I'm talking about. Me and you may be talking about something different.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: Because I know there was different proceedings prior to that.
Mr. Mesereau: But around that time, David was arrested, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yeah, because, you know, he did what he did.
Mr. Mesereau: And a couple of weeks after the agreement was signed, you filed for divorce against David, right?
Janet Arvizo: I -- when David showed up to the criminal court proceedings on the first day --
Mr. Zonen: Objection; nonresponsive.
Janet Arvizo: I already answered that so many times.
The Court: Just a moment, please. Sustained. Do you want the question read back, Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, please, Your Honor.
The Court Reporter: And a couple of weeks after the agreement was signed, you filed for divorce against David, right?
Janet Arvizo: I don't know how to answer that. All I know is that David was arrested. And the first day that he showed up where I was at the criminal proceedings, that's when he was handed my -- the filed divorce file. And I've never gone back with him ever again, so it was serious. That was it. That was enough.
Mr. Mesereau: After he was arrested, you were in a legal dispute with him as to how the settlement money would be divided, correct?
Janet Arvizo: Incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you go to any type of mediation procedure to settle how much each member was going to get of the 152,000?
Janet Arvizo: No. That's incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't recall any discussion among lawyers about that, right?
Janet Arvizo: That's incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When did you and David agree how much each party was going to get?
Janet Arvizo: There was no -- there was no back and forth with that. They -- the civil law firm, they decided that. But I know -- but I am aware of this, though: David's -- Mr. Halpern, his wife --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as nonresponsive.
Janet Arvizo: -- was demanding --
The Court: Just a moment. There's no question. Go ahead.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. David got approximately $5,000 from that settlement, correct?
Janet Arvizo: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I'd like to ask you about purchases made on your behalf by anyone associated with Michael Jackson, okay? Do you recall a dinner at Outback Steakhouse on February 21st, 2003?
Janet Arvizo: No. That didn't happen. I know where I was February 21st.
Mr. Mesereau: You never were there with Frank or Vinnie, correct?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: As a matter of fact, on the surveillance video, you can see your guy following us.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you were being investigated, weren't you?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You're not aware of Mr. Geragos ever hiring people to investigate you?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; lack of foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: So you never went to Outback Steakhouse, right?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall going to Robinson's-May on February 21st, 2003?
Janet Arvizo: No. That's incorrect. I know where I was February 21st.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever go into Robinson's-May in Thousand Oaks on February 21st, 2003?
Janet Arvizo: No. I remember the day. I think it was the 26th.
Mr. Mesereau: You went to Robinson's-May?
Janet Arvizo: I think it was the 26th. The same day that my children had gone.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know who paid that bill?
Janet Arvizo: That was Vinnie. I think that was Vinnie.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you remember what was purchased?
Janet Arvizo: No, I can't remember. I think it was -- I think it was a couple of outfits. I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: For who?
Janet Arvizo: This was for me.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were --
Janet Arvizo: I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall the bill being approximately $92.24?
Janet Arvizo: No, I think it was more like -- I don't know. It was around that price range, though.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall what clothes you bought?
Janet Arvizo: No, I can't remember, because they took them away. They rummaged through the things when I had finally got out. And not only did they take the things that they had purchased, but they also took some of our items back. And that's why Mr. Dickerman's letter, it states “Children's clothing”. I didn't care about mine.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you the receipt --
Janet Arvizo: It don't matter.
Mr. Mesereau: -- as far as the clothes you bought?
Janet Arvizo: I've already seen it.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know what clothes you purchased?
Janet Arvizo: And I'm acknowledging that on the same day that my children's things were purchased, the same items were.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know what clothes you bought?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection to look at the receipt?
Janet Arvizo: Sure. If you have the receipt --
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
Janet Arvizo: -- of the 26th.
Mr. Zonen: May I see the receipt, please? This is not the 26th. Your Honor, I believe the witness has requested the receipt from the 26th.
Janet Arvizo: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't want to see one from the 21st?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You deny being in Robinson's-May on the 21st, right?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct. I know where I was the 21st.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall going to Lisa's Beauty Supply on the 21st?
Janet Arvizo: That's incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever been to that store?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never got hair products there?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How about a store called Pacific Sunwear, did you ever go there?
Janet Arvizo: I don't think so. I think it was just the -- I think it was -- the best I can remember, it was in an outlet area. It was a Jockey store, and I think it was a Levi store. And then the luggages.
Mr. Mesereau: And you think you went --
Janet Arvizo: On that same day, Robinson's-May. I think -- that's the best I can remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you think you went to Robinson's-May on the 25th?
Janet Arvizo: No. No, it was the same day, the 26th.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you go to Robinson's-May on the 25th?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you go to Anchor Blue on the 25th?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did Mr. Jackson ever pay for clothing for you at Anchor Blue?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How about at Robinson's-May?
Janet Arvizo: On the 26th, yes. Which they kept.
Mr. Mesereau: And you never went to Pacific Sunwear on the 26th of February, right, 2003?
Janet Arvizo: No. The best I can remember is the Levi outlet store, the Jockey outlet store, and then that luggages. That's the best I can remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall --
Janet Arvizo: And Robinson's-May.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry. Are you finished?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall purchasing luggage on February 26th, 2003?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what luggage do you recall purchasing?
Janet Arvizo: They were -- they were black.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall asking for a particular kind of luggage?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And the cost was approximately $127.40, right?
Janet Arvizo: I think so. And also -- Vinnie had purchased also for Frank and Vinnie.
Mr. Mesereau: For themselves?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: In that luggage store.
Mr. Mesereau: For that trip to Brazil?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall going to Banana Republic on February 26th, 2003?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Never went there?
Janet Arvizo: Never went there.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall going to the Gap outlet in Camarillo on February 26th, 2003?
Janet Arvizo: No. The best I can remember, it was the Levi outlet, the Jockey, the luggage, and the Robinson's-May. That's the best I can remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall charging up $436.77 at the Levi outlet on February 26th?
Janet Arvizo: That sounds about correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall eating at the Woodland Hills Black Angus on February 26th?
Janet Arvizo: I think that -- I think that's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And who did you eat there with?
Janet Arvizo: It was Frank, Vinnie, the three kids, myself, and they were filming that for Michael's positive PR.
Mr. Mesereau: And the bill was $175.34, approximately, right?
Janet Arvizo: I never saw the bill. I never saw the bill.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Do you recall shopping at The Foot Locker on February 26th, 2003?
Janet Arvizo: No. That's incorrect.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't go there?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't get any shoes for your son there?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall going to Abercrombie & Fitch on February 26th, 2003?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't go there at all, right?
Janet Arvizo: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you do recall Robinson's-May in Canoga Park on February 26th, right?
Janet Arvizo: I don't know what city it was, but it definitely was February 26th. Some things just -- are just stuck in there.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I just show you the receipt?
Janet Arvizo: Like I said, if it happened February 26th, then it did happen.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know what clothes you bought there on that day?
Janet Arvizo: No, I can't remember.
Mr. Zonen: On what day? Objection; vague.
Mr. Mesereau: February 26th, 2003.
Mr. Zonen: Where is this?
Mr. Mesereau: Robinson's-May in Canoga Park.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know what clothes you bought there?
Janet Arvizo: No, I can't remember. But besides that, Frank had taken all the clothes that they had purchased. And when he was rummaging through our bags, he also took some of my children's clothing that belonged to them that they did not purchase.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you shopping with Frank or Vinnie on February 27th, 2003?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't go to Robinson's-May on February 27th?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't go to Rite-Aid?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't go to Anchor Blue, right?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall going to Hsong's Barber Shop on February 28th?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall going to Adidas on February 27th of 2003?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall going to Old Navy on February 27, 2003?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, do you recall going to Robinson's-May on February 27th, 2003?
Janet Arvizo: February 26th. It's burned inside my memory.
Mr. Mesereau: And where was that Robinson's-May located?
Janet Arvizo: Right next to -- right next to the hotel where we were at.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that across the street?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever going to Canoga Park during this period of time?
Janet Arvizo: I don't know what the city was. I just know that it was near there. That's all.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall going to Anchor Blue on March 1st?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Robinson's-May on March 2nd for cosmetics?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Lovely Nails on March 10th?
Janet Arvizo: March 10th is the nails -- the nail shop.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was for a manicure and a pedicure, correct?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: It was a $115 bill paid by Mr. Jackson, true?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; lack of foundation.
Janet Arvizo: No.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall -- let me rephrase this. Do you recall sending any employees to do shopping for you while you were there?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: So that never happened?
Janet Arvizo: Never happened.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Where was Lovely Nails located?
Janet Arvizo: Right by Jay's work.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know who paid that bill?
Janet Arvizo: Vinnie did.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Gavin getting a haircut during that period of time?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever asking Frank or Vinnie to buy cosmetics for you?
Janet Arvizo: No, that didn't happen.
Mr. Mesereau: Never happened?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever go to any store where you could pick out cosmetics that they would purchase?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: What restaurants do you recall eating at with Frank or Vinnie?
Janet Arvizo: The Black Angus one. And it was one meal, while we were in the hotel. It was one meal per day. And they were filming the whole thing. So Black Angus is one of them. But that's the best I can remember. And we had to stay in the hotel.
Mr. Mesereau: So you're saying you were limited to one meal a day while you were filming?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And where were you filming?
Janet Arvizo: I wasn't filming. Your people were filming. And when we'd go eat. At Black Angus was one of them.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me get this straight. You're staying at the hotel, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you're saying you're limited to one meal a day, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: While you're being filmed; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: No, not while we were being filmed. They would film the event. They would film the dinner for Michael's positive PR.
Mr. Mesereau: So a dinner was filmed at Outback Steakhouse?
Janet Arvizo: If in that time period, it falls within that time period, it did happen. But the best I can remember is only -- what he just said, is Black Angus. I do remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: And who do you remember eating at Black Angus with?
Janet Arvizo: Frank, Vinnie, my three children, me, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall around November 9th, 2001, buying an automobile?
Janet Arvizo: November 9th?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: Of what year?
Mr. Mesereau: 2001.
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you buy an automobile around that period of time?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you taking the bus all the time then?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you -- again, just for the record, you moved in with Jay Jackson approximately December of 2002; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: That's incorrect. I moved when they took my place away.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Janet Arvizo: And that was in March of 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you spending time at Jay Jackson's home starting December of 2002?
Janet Arvizo: I visited Jay throughout -- since I first met him. He was my -- it was a new relationship. I really liked being with him, me and the kids.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you start spending a good portion of the week there approximately December of 2002?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you start spending days at Jay Jackson's home?
Janet Arvizo: Again, this is like three years ago now probably. Well, when you guys took my place away. I had nowhere else to go.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you spending most of the week at Jay Jackson's home before the Soto apartment was vacated? Yes or no.
Janet Arvizo: I would ride the bus with my children on the metro rail. I'd take them to school. And then I'd go and -- to Jay's apartment and make myself serviceable with cleaning his house, do just something, and then go pick up the kids. And he would let me know how long he was going to be at work. If he was going to stay longer, then I'd just go home.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately -- let me rephrase that. You first met Psychologist Stanley Katz in May of 2003, true?
Janet Arvizo: I think so. I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: You met him through Larry Feldman, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. This is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told the jury that at some point you first learned about any molestation through the Santa Barbara police, right?
Janet Arvizo: I already felt and were aware that things were a mess. But it was confirmed when the police and the D.A.'s Office made me aware. Mr. Robel had explained to me that Gavin had entrusted something with him --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Move to strike; nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You claim you first learned about any alleged molestation in September of 2003, correct?
Janet Arvizo: I don't understand what he's saying, but I was becoming aware of things through Gavin and Star, little by little by little.
Mr. Mesereau: You claim that you learned about any alleged molestation in September of 2003 from Prosecutor Sneddon, Sheriff Klapakis and Sheriff Robel, right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: I have no further questions.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Ms. Arvizo, good afternoon.
Janet Arvizo: Good afternoon.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Mesereau had asked you about a Mary Holzer. Who is Mary Holzer?
Janet Arvizo: Mary Holzer, she is the last -- what I know, she's the office manager of the Rothstein civil law firm, and she's a humongous Michael Jackson fan.
Mr. Zonen: What do you mean by that?
Janet Arvizo: Well, when she was taking me back and forth to the various visits, because I didn't have a car, she was continuously asking, requesting, begging to meet Michael Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever tell Miss Holzer that the injuries that you sustained after the J.C. Penney's incident were given to you by your husband?
Janet Arvizo: Never.
Mr. Zonen: Is it the case that the injuries that you sustained in the J.C. Penney's case were received by you by your husband?
Janet Arvizo: If the -- on the day the J. --
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: Say it again.
Mr. Zonen: Is it the case that the injuries that you suffered during -- that the injuries that you had were received by your husband and not by J.C. Penney's?
Janet Arvizo: I kind of don't understand.
Mr. Zonen: Let me ask that question again.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Were you injured during the J.C. Penney's arrest?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Now, what happened in that arrest?
Janet Arvizo: The J.C. Penney's and Tower Records injured me and both my boys.
Mr. Zonen: How did that happen?
Janet Arvizo: Well, they clobbered me.
Mr. Zonen: How did you happen to be there?
Janet Arvizo: Well, because I was -- I had already gotten a loss prevention agent job for Oshman Sporting Goods.
Mr. Zonen: Where was Oshman Sporting Goods?
Janet Arvizo: It was inside the mall.
Mr. Zonen: Were you at Oshman Sporting Goods?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I was.
Mr. Zonen: Was your husband with you?
Janet Arvizo: No, he wasn't.
Mr. Zonen: Were either of your two children with you?
Janet Arvizo: No, they weren't.
Mr. Zonen: Where did they go?
Janet Arvizo: They went with David.
Mr. Zonen: And Mr. Mesereau had asked you if, in fact, you had learned your son Gavin had walked out of the store with items. How old was your son Gavin at that time?
Janet Arvizo: I think my best -- they were in the summer of first grade, and I think -- I think both -- I think either -- I think it was six and seven. Six and seven, I think.
Mr. Zonen: This was before Gavin was ill with cancer; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, way before Gavin was ill.
Mr. Zonen: At some point, did you learn that he had walked out of the store with something?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What was the item he walked out with?
Janet Arvizo: Two school uniforms and two school uniform pants.
Mr. Zonen: Was David Arvizo with him at that time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, he was.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, what was the first thing you saw or learned that day?
Janet Arvizo: Well, the first thing I saw was David getting hit by a male and a female. And this is -- I don't know if you know malls. Like --
Mr. Zonen: Just tell us what you saw.
Janet Arvizo: -- way far.
Mr. Zonen: Just tell us what you saw. What did you see?
Janet Arvizo: I walked out and I saw that David was getting hit by a male and a female.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know who they were?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't know.
Mr. Zonen: Were they wearing uniforms?
Janet Arvizo: No, they weren't.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any reason to believe that they were security?
Janet Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Zonen: What did you do?
Janet Arvizo: Well, I figured, you know, they might think -- I might be able to startle them with my two phrases, and those two phrases are also burned here. I told them, “What are you doing? What's going on?” Because I figured by saying that, that would spook them and they would run.
Mr. Zonen: What happened?
Janet Arvizo: Instead they turned around and just clobbered me.
Mr. Zonen: Were you arrested by them?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I was.
Mr. Zonen: Were you injured by them?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I was.
Mr. Zonen: Hold on just one second. Where were you injured and how were you injured?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. The best I can remember is they broke my hand, my left hand. They made some -- like a little bump here, pop out, from my wrist. They, you know, hit -- punched all over my body. Let's see. They did significant muscle damage on my back. Hit my face. All over my body. That's the best I can remember.
Mr. Zonen: Where did you have bruises on you?
Janet Arvizo: My legs. My arms. A little bit on my face. But that's -- that's the best I can remember.
Mr. Zonen: Were you arrested that day?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I was arrested.
Mr. Zonen: Were you taken to jail?
Janet Arvizo: I was taken to jail.
Mr. Zonen: Was David Arvizo taken to jail?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. David was taken to jail.
Mr. Zonen: Were you charged with any criminal offense?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What were you charged with?
Janet Arvizo: I was charged with burglary, assault and battery, and petty theft.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever actually go inside J.C. Penney's?
Janet Arvizo: I never even went inside that store.
Mr. Zonen: Were those charges ultimately dismissed?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was the lawsuit with J.C. Penney filed before or after the charges were dismissed?
Janet Arvizo: It was after.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have photographs that were taken of your injuries?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: After you were released from jail, what did you do?
Janet Arvizo: After I was released from jail, the best I can remember is I remember the -- the jail person giving me the car keys, so I walked over to the mall parking lot. The best I can remember is I picked up the car. My children at this point had already been taken by my parents, because the police officer did not want to take custody of my children. So they waited for my parents to arrive before I even went to the jail. Right there in the parking lot, the police handed over my two boys. And -- but after I came out of jail, and then I -- I don't know whether this came first or after, I went to go do a drug test, because that's what I went to go pick up at the -- at Oshman's. I had already been given the job. I just had to do -- it was -- they said it was a mere technicality. All I had to do was submit to an alcohol -- I mean, what they -- those drug tests. And --
Mr. Zonen: Was that a urine exam?
Janet Arvizo: Pardon me?
Mr. Zonen: A urine test?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it was.
Mr. Zonen: Where did you have to do that?
Janet Arvizo: It was really close to the mall, right there.
Mr. Zonen: Did you do it that night?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did it. And they time-stamped it.
Mr. Zonen: Where was your husband at that time?
Janet Arvizo: At that time, I believe he's still in jail.
Mr. Zonen: All right. The kids were where?
Janet Arvizo: The kids are with my parents.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know approximately what time it was?
Janet Arvizo: At this time?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't. I know it was right before I ended up going to Kaiser.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Janet Arvizo: Which that was also time-stamped.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a car at that time?
Janet Arvizo: At that time, yes, it was a mini-van.
Mr. Zonen: And where was the vehicle?
Janet Arvizo: The vehicle was at the -- still at the shopping mall.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And then where did you go with the -- did you get the vehicle at some point in time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: I believe that I walked over and went and picked it up myself. Do you know approximately what time it was that David Arvizo was released from custody that night?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't. I just know that it was minutes before we went to Kaiser.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you, in fact, go to Kaiser that night?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Did you do that soon after David Arvizo's release?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, like that.
Mr. Zonen: Did he inflict any injury on you at any time from the time he was released from custody to the time --
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: -- that you arrived at Kaiser Hospital?
Janet Arvizo: No, he didn't.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And did they attend to your injuries when you got to Kaiser Hospital?
Janet Arvizo: Does that mean like --
Mr. Zonen: Did they treat your injuries at that time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, they did. They did.
Mr. Zonen: You said your kids were picked up by your parents at that time?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, at the shopping mall. They didn't even take them -- the police wanted to release the children right there to my parents. They didn't want to take them into custody.
Mr. Zonen: Were either of your children injured in the course of that altercation?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, they were.
Mr. Zonen: Which children were injured?
Janet Arvizo: They broke Gavin's arm. They gave him a black eye. Star, they gave him a concussion. That's the best I can remember.
Mr. Zonen: Was there a settlement on behalf of Star and Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: What does that mean?
Mr. Zonen: In other words, did they receive money?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, they did.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recall how much they received, approximately?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't recall. I've never touched it. It's still sitting there.
Mr. Zonen: I believe you just said there was an amount of money that was received by both Star and Gavin.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: You don't recall at this moment how much that was?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't. That's --
Mr. Zonen: Did one receive more than the other?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was that reflective of the injury?
Janet Arvizo: I think so.
Mr. Zonen: Which one? Which of your children received the greater amount?
Janet Arvizo: Gavin did.
Mr. Zonen: I think you said it went into a bank account; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And is it still there?
Janet Arvizo: It is still there.
Mr. Zonen: How long will it remain in that bank account?
Janet Arvizo: Till they become adults.
Mr. Zonen: I'd like to show you two exhibits, please, No. 820 and 821. Take a look at those two exhibits, if you would.
Janet Arvizo: Okay. Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Are those exhibits familiar to you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, they are.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And do they reflect the amount of money that was received by each of those two children?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. It is correct.
Mr. Zonen: Can you tell us, then, how much money it was for each one?
Janet Arvizo: Gavin is -- to the dollar? To the penny?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: As long as it's in front of you.
Janet Arvizo: Okay. Gavin is 25,595. And Star's is $8,576.
Mr. Zonen: Have either you or your husband had -- your ex-husband David had access to that money at all?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: And that's per the conditions of that settlement; is that correct?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, this is correct.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us how much you received on that.
Janet Arvizo: Myself?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Janet Arvizo: The best I can remember, myself, I received 32,000.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And how much did David receive?
Janet Arvizo: David received 5,000.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, the total judgment on that was something over 150,000; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: This is correct.
Mr. Zonen: What happened to the rest of the money?
Janet Arvizo: The attorneys -- it went all to the attorneys.
Mr. Zonen: Were there medical expenses as well?
Janet Arvizo: I think so. I -- it came -- it was disbursed from the law office. What they did with it, they would know best.
Mr. Zonen: May I approach the witness, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I'm showing you a collection of documents that are numbered 819 for identification. 819, a series of photographs. And there's actually 19 pages in here. Excuse me, 16 pages. 16 pages. Take a look at that, if you could, and let's start with each one of those pages. Can you tell us the content of the subject matter of that first page?
Janet Arvizo: It is me. I do have a bra on. And it shows bruises on my arms and my legs.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead and go to the next page. And the two top photographs are who, please?
Janet Arvizo: They're both of me.
Mr. Zonen: And they show injuries where?
Janet Arvizo: On my legs, on my arms, and then wearing that thing on my wrist.
Mr. Zonen: And the thing on your wrist is a brace?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. First it was the cast, and then it went -- they did that after they cleaned it up.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And then the two bottom photographs on the second page of this exhibit.
Janet Arvizo: They're both of Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And what injury did Gavin have?
Janet Arvizo: He had a broken arm.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Was it at his elbow?
Janet Arvizo: I think it was his elbow. I'm -- or up here. I don't remember very clear. It was either up here or his elbow.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. How old was Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: The best I can remember, six or seven.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Go to the next page, please.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: No. 3 reflects what, the two top photos?
Janet Arvizo: It's of my hand, and myself sitting down.
Mr. Zonen: And the two bottom photos?
Janet Arvizo: Of me with the bruises.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And the bruises are where in those photos?
Janet Arvizo: My arms and my legs.
Mr. Zonen: Go to the next page, please, No. 4. And where are the bruises in these four photographs?
Janet Arvizo: On my arms and my legs.
Mr. Zonen: The front or back of your legs?
Janet Arvizo: The back.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Go to the next page, please, No. 5, and tell us what these photographs depict.
Janet Arvizo: They're of my legs.
Mr. Zonen: No. 6, page six, what do these photographs depict?
Janet Arvizo: Still on my legs.
Mr. Zonen: And these are bruises on the bottom and top portion of your leg?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Go to the next page, No. 7. What does that reflect?
Janet Arvizo: Bruises still on my arms and legs.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Next page, please.
Janet Arvizo: And I think this is Gavin's arm up here.
Mr. Zonen: So on page seven of the four photographs in that -- on that -- depicted on that page, the upper right, you believe, is Gavin's elbow?
Janet Arvizo: I think so.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Go to the next.
Janet Arvizo: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Four pictures on page eight, what are they?
Janet Arvizo: They're of myself.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And the two top ones, or the top one on the left, what does that depict?
Janet Arvizo: The top left is a full back side of how I looked.
Mr. Zonen: And it shows bruising where?
Janet Arvizo: On the back of my arms, and the back of my legs.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And on the right side at the top, what does that depict?
Janet Arvizo: My arms from the front side.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And then the bottom picture on the left?
Janet Arvizo: Of my wrist.
Mr. Zonen: And then the picture on the right?
Janet Arvizo: Of my face, right cheek.
Mr. Zonen: What kind of bruise did you have on your right cheek?
Janet Arvizo: Like a -- like this.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Go to the next page. This is page nine. Let's turn it on its side. Tell us what -- the picture of the little boy, which little boy is that?
Janet Arvizo: This is Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: And that shows his arm?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And then the two other pictures?
Janet Arvizo: This was the scrape that he had on this arm, and it shows his black eye.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And then the other two pictures apparently are -- no, go back.
Janet Arvizo: Oh.
Mr. Zonen: On the same page, which is page nine, there are two other pictures. That is of you?
Janet Arvizo: Of my legs.
Mr. Zonen: And then the four photographs on page ten?
Janet Arvizo: They're all the same. And they're just showing my upper arms.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And page 11?
Janet Arvizo: My upper half and one of full body.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. So these are --
Janet Arvizo: Showing bruises.
Mr. Zonen: -- bruises, upper chest and your upper arms?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Page 12?
Janet Arvizo: A front view of me.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Page 13, one photograph.
Janet Arvizo: Of Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: And that's his arm?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Page 14?
Janet Arvizo: I think this is because it's showing a scrape on that arm.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Page 14, four photographs of what?
Janet Arvizo: Of right here.
Mr. Zonen: The wrist?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Page 15?
Janet Arvizo: My son Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: That's Gavin?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: With his arm?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And finally, page 16?
Janet Arvizo: This is Gavin with his broken arm.
Mr. Zonen: All right. When were those photographs taken?
Janet Arvizo: Immediately.
Mr. Zonen: By “immediately” what do you mean? That day, or the next day, or when?
Janet Arvizo: I think it was -- the best I can remember, I think it was -- I think it was the next day right after we had taken -- I think it was after the boys had received medical services. I think that's the best I can remember.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, I'm going to move to introduce these photographs, which is Exhibit 819, into evidence at this time.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: They're admitted.
Mr. Zonen: May I have just a moment, please? Your Honor, I'd like to publish these photographs, or some of them. I'd like to publish these photographs at this time.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Zonen: Let's start with the two on the top of page two of this exhibit. And Miss Arvizo, go ahead and look at this. These are the top of page two. And describe for us, please, what we're looking at, the injuries. First start with the pictures on the left.
Janet Arvizo: That's me. This is me sitting down and showing the bruises from -- from this, this part right here, my legs and my lower half.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And the picture on the right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, my legs.
Mr. Zonen: It's page six of that exhibit. Tell us specifically what we're looking at here, please.
Janet Arvizo: Kind of like a little diagonal view of my legs.
Mr. Zonen: And that shows the bruises where on your legs?
Janet Arvizo: On my -- the front part of my calf area.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And on both legs?
Janet Arvizo: Yes. On both legs. And you can see a little bit of the back part of my thighs.
Mr. Zonen: Also page six on the lower left-hand corner. Can you describe what we're looking at in that photograph?
Janet Arvizo: Bruising on the back side of me. And there's that -- the thing over my hand.
Mr. Zonen: And on your left hand?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And this is page number seven. On page number seven, would you tell us, please, what we're looking at on that photograph?
Janet Arvizo: That's from a sitting position, I think it's di -- I think it's diagonal in the other direction of the bruises on my arms and my legs.
Mr. Zonen: On both legs -- both arms?
Janet Arvizo: Both arms.
Mr. Zonen: And both legs?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Exhibit No. 8, No. 8 of this exhibit, tell us what that one is, please.
Janet Arvizo: This is a -- a back side of me. And then you can see a little bit of the -- of the underarm, showing that, showing my right arm.
Mr. Zonen: And what are we looking at on this picture?
Janet Arvizo: I had -- I had bruising and a little bit of swelling right here, my right cheek.
Mr. Zonen: And that's also Exhibit No. 8.
The Court: I think you're referring to the page number.
Mr. Zonen: Yes, page number. Exactly.
Mr. Zonen: That was who now?
Janet Arvizo: This is Gavin.
Mr. Zonen: And he had his hand at that time in a sling; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, he did.
Mr. Zonen: And a cast?
Janet Arvizo: He had a cast.
Mr. Zonen: We can have the lights back on. You were asked some questions about a car that had belonged to Chris Tucker. Did Chris Tucker ever actually offer you a vehicle?
Janet Arvizo: Chris Tucker gave it to me and the kids as a Christmas present from him and Azja. It was Azja's old car, but Chris had taken the kids to buy Azja a birthday present, as a surprise birthday present, and he had the kids pick Azja's new color of her car for her birthday.
Mr. Zonen: Now, did you actually ever drive that car?
Janet Arvizo: I never drove that car.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever take possession of it?
Janet Arvizo: I never took possession of the car.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember when it was that he offered you the car or gave you the car?
Janet Arvizo: It was for Christmastime. And he hadn't seen me and the kids, neither did Azja, so the first time he got to see us was at his home, and that's when he gave it to me.
Mr. Zonen: Did -- you say he gave it to you. But how is it you never took possession of it?
Janet Arvizo: Well, because he says, “Here's the keys. And this is yours and the kids' Christmas present”.
Mr. Zonen: And --
Janet Arvizo: It was Azja's old car.
Mr. Zonen: But tell me why you didn't drive away with it.
Janet Arvizo: Because. In Miami -- remember way in the beginning I had told you that I had tied a garbage bag which I had placed my Timberland shoes inside a Turnberry bag and I tied it so tight to my red sports bag that the only way you can take this bag off was by ripping it? That's it. And that disappeared. I didn't see it till --
Mr. Zonen: Are you telling us that had the keys in it?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, that had the keys in it.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, again, that was early February when you went to Miami?
Janet Arvizo: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: Where was the car between Christmas and early February?
Janet Arvizo: At Azja's house.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you -- you took the keys, but you never got the car?
Janet Arvizo: That's correct. On that day was when Chris had told me that Azja and Chris had been looking for us to give us a Christmas present.
Mr. Zonen: All right. So when exactly was it that they gave you the keys?
Janet Arvizo: The day I went to Chris's house.
Mr. Zonen: To go to Miami?
Janet Arvizo: To go to Miami, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. All right. So it was not a Christmas gift to you. It was a Christmas gift to Azja?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: The new car?
Janet Arvizo: No. I don't know if I explained it correctly. Azja had gotten a brand-new Mercedes for her birthday. This was now Azja's old car, which was just sitting in her -- in her driveway. So Chris and Azja decided that they wanted to give me and the children this car for Christmas, but they were unable to locate us.
Mr. Zonen: All right. It wasn't until the --
Janet Arvizo: Until --
Mr. Zonen: He went to Miami?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, that's correct.
Mr. Zonen: So the keys you took, but you never got the car?
Janet Arvizo: Exactly.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever have a conversation with either Azja or Chris Tucker after you got back from Miami --
Janet Arvizo: Well --
Mr. Zonen: -- about the car?
Janet Arvizo: With Chris, never again.
Mr. Zonen: You never had another conversation with Chris?
Janet Arvizo: I never had.
Mr. Zonen: And with Azja?
Janet Arvizo: With Azja, I think so. I think it was -- I think it was, yeah, I was able to tell her, “Thank you”.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever see the keys again?
Janet Arvizo: I never saw the keys again.
Mr. Zonen: You never took the car, never drove the car?
Janet Arvizo: No, they disappeared with my garbage bag.
Mr. Zonen: Now, the vehicle that was a gift to Gavin from Mr. Jackson, do you know the difference between a Bronco and a Blazer?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't.
Mr. Zonen: If I were to ask you to describe one against the other, would you know?
Janet Arvizo: No, I wouldn't be able.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember what color it was?
Janet Arvizo: I do remember that. It was white.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know what the letters “SUV” stand for?
Janet Arvizo: No. No.
Mr. Zonen: If somebody were to say “SUV” to you, does that --
Janet Arvizo: The best I can --
Mr. Zonen: Hold on. Does that conjure up in your mind some kind of a vehicle?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: SUV?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What kind of a vehicle?
Janet Arvizo: Kind of like a half truck, half pickup with enclosure, like a camper, all fused together.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Was it that kind of vehicle that Mr. Jackson gave you?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know the difference between a GMC and a Ford?
Janet Arvizo: No, I don't.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know what the letters “GMC” stand for?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did somebody tell you it was a Bronco?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Who?
Janet Arvizo: David did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, this car actually did come into your family's possession; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, it did.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever get any documentation on it; in other words, a registration of some kind, or a pink slip?
Janet Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know what -- when I say “pink slip”, do you know what that means?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I do know that.
Mr. Zonen: And registration, do you know what that means?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Have you ever actually bought a car yourself?
Janet Arvizo: No. Let me see. I think a long, long, long time ago, I may have been a co-signer, I don't know, of a red Nissan Sentra.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever actually walk into a car dealership by yourself and pick out a car and purchase it?
Janet Arvizo: By myself, never.
Mr. Zonen: On this particular case, I asked you about documentation, a pink slip or a registration, and you said, I think, they did not give you that; is that right?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, that's correct.
Mr. Zonen: So you were talking about a document with a VIN number on it.
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What was that?
Janet Arvizo: Okay. I had -- there was a -- like a long number thing, and I had written it down on a piece of paper.
Mr. Zonen: So you wrote the number yourself?
Janet Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And tell me why you did this.
Janet Arvizo: Because -- just so I know that that was the car that belonged to that. That's all.
Mr. Zonen: But you did that at a time that you had the car in your possession?
Janet Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. How long was --
The Court: All right. Counsel, we'll end for today. Remember the adminitions. See you tomorrow morning at 8:30.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:30 p.m.
