Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Thursday, April 28, 2005 8:38 a.m.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: Good morning, everyone.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning.
The Court: The reason I came in without the jury is I was provided with a motion to strike the testimony of Debbie Rowe this morning. I assumed you anticipated I would take that up at this moment. Or did you not?
Mr. Sanger: We hoped you would, if you would give us the time to do it, Your Honor.
The Court: Here's my sense of it: She hasn't testified long enough for me to know, really, what she's going to say, or anyone else. And your motion might be well-taken. It might not. But I -- I understand what she said yesterday, but I don't really understand what she has to say today. So I would want to really hear more testimony, I think.
Mr. Sanger: Very well. Well, we briefed it, and Your Honor understands our position.
The Court: I understand your position. I just think the -- she barely got started yesterday. I mean, I really -- I think I'd have to let it -- well, I would have to know more about what she says than what I know already to know whether or not your motion is well-taken.
Mr. Sanger: Well, my concern was -- if I may, my concern was to raise it at the earliest possible moment --
The Court: I know.
Mr. Sanger: -- because if it goes too long, then we get into a position where it's hard to undo it. And if --
The Court: I understand that, but --
Mr. Sanger: I'm not arguing with the Court.
The Court: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: I just want to let you know why I think -- whenever you feel --
The Court: There is another side of the coin, though. I let the testimony in based on their representations in their written materials, which -- if the testimony is the exact opposite, I mean, isn't that the testimony that would be relevant to your side of the case?
Mr. Sanger: Yes and no. And the problem -- I understand that. And we thought about it, but the problem is that this will then lead to a tremendous amount of other collateral testimony to put whatever it is in context.
The Court: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: And that's my concern. If we go too far down the road, then we pretty much are committed to doing the whole thing.
The Court: Okay. Well, let's go further down the road before --
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
The Court: Is there anything you -- you didn't get to say anything. I assume --
Mr. Zonen: Nor am I requesting to.
The Court: Huh?
Mr. Zonen: Nor am I requesting to.
The Court: Okay.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: I already said good morning to everyone else, so I'll say good morning to you.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
The Court: You may proceed.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION Continued BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Miss Rowe, good morning.
Debbie Rowe: Good morning.
Mr. Zonen: We left off, we were discussing the interview that you had back in February of 2003 at Marc Schaffel's home in Calabasas. And you recall that interview, do you not?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And I believe that you had testified yesterday that you were at his residence for some time over nine or ten hours; is that correct?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Approximately how long were you at his residence?
Debbie Rowe: We started early in the morning and finished around 9:00, 10:00 at night.
Mr. Zonen: Was your attorney there the entire time?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was she in your presence the entire time?
Debbie Rowe: No, she was not.
Mr. Zonen: Were there times when you were separated from her?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What was the purpose of that?
Debbie Rowe: To -- I didn't want to see the interviewer before the interview. And the best way to do that was to leave where everything was that was happening in the living room off to the side of the main entrance of the house, so Mr. Schaffel and I went upstairs in his office.
Mr. Zonen: And did you have a conversation with Mr. Schaffel at that time?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you discuss the interview?
Debbie Rowe: No.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, did you take a look at a script?
Debbie Rowe: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. The answer was, “No”.
Mr. Zonen: All right. At some point in time, did you see one in somebody else's possession?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Debbie Rowe: Mr. Drew had questions; I assume they were questions. He had a number of pages and asked if I wanted to see them. And I said no.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how many questions were on that script?
Debbie Rowe: He told me 105.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if he went over all of those questions during the course of that interview?
Debbie Rowe: My understanding is we did.
Mr. Zonen: And the number of hours that you spent in actual interview was approximately what?
Debbie Rowe: Nine.
Mr. Zonen: Was Mr. Schaffel there the entire time?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was Mr. Schaffel saying anything during that time?
Debbie Rowe: He was hearing sounds in the background, thought it was being picked up on audio, wanted to change what the back --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead.
Debbie Rowe: Wanted to make sure what the background looked like and everything. He occasionally -- not “occasionally”, frequently would interject to rephrase a question or an answer. And I told him if that did not --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Nonresponsive; narrative.
The Court: Sustained at this point.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us specifically what he said to you with regards to either questions or answers.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Calls for a narrative; hearsay; foundation.
The Court: Sustained as to narrative.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us if he -- let me change that. With regards to answers to your questions, did he make any comments as to answers to your questions?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What kinds of comments did he make?
Debbie Rowe: He --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague; foundation; calls for a narrative.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead and answer the question, if you recall.
Debbie Rowe: He would ask me if I would rephrase an answer or he would ask Mr. Drew to rephrase a question.
Mr. Zonen: And what types of questions or answers would he ask you to rephrase?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember any specific questions that he asked you to rephrase?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Misstates the evidence and vague.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Zonen: You can answer.
Debbie Rowe: I don't remember a specific -- there were so many, I don't remember any specific. I remember at the end he wanted us to add stuff to clarify what he thought might be misunderstood or something.
Mr. Zonen: And did you, in fact, make changes in your interview in accordance with his request?
Debbie Rowe: Only if it didn't change the meaning of what I had to say.
Mr. Zonen: And what was the meaning of what you had to say?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What is it that you were intending to represent in this interview?
Debbie Rowe: Michael as a wonderful person and as a great father and generous and caring.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you have information as to Michael Jackson as a wonderful father?
Debbie Rowe: As I've known him?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: When was the last time you'd actually talked with him?
Debbie Rowe: In 1999.
Mr. Zonen: All right. This was in early 2003; is that correct?
Debbie Rowe: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: When was the last time you saw him interact with the children?
Debbie Rowe: 1991. I'm sorry, 1999.
Mr. Zonen: In the course of this interview, did you represent yourself as still being part of the family?
Debbie Rowe: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Was that true?
Debbie Rowe: No, it was not.
Mr. Zonen: Why did you do it?
Debbie Rowe: To protect the children and to try to keep the media and questions away and out of their focus. And to make sure that I could do whatever I could even at a distance.
Mr. Zonen: Did you feel that you were enthusiastic during this interview?
Debbie Rowe: I --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: How did you approach this interview in terms of your affect?
Debbie Rowe: I was excited to do it.
Mr. Zonen: Why?
Debbie Rowe: Because I would get to see my children and possibly renew a relationship with Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: Why did you want to do that?
Debbie Rowe: They're my family.
Mr. Zonen: Did you consider them your family?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you consider Mr. Jackson to be your family to the same extent as your children?
Debbie Rowe: I don't think anyone is as much as your children, but, yes.
Mr. Zonen: How long had it been since you had seen your children?
Debbie Rowe: About two and a half years.
Mr. Zonen: At the conclusion of the interview, did you have a conversation with anybody about when you would be able to see your children?
Debbie Rowe: Mr. Schaffel said that he was excited, and that we'd be going up to Neverland soon. And I said, “Fine”. I said, “Let me know as soon as you can”.
Mr. Zonen: Was that something that you wanted to do?
Debbie Rowe: Very much. Very much.
Mr. Zonen: When was the last time you had been to Neverland?
Debbie Rowe: Years. I couldn't tell you. Probably .99, .98.
Mr. Zonen: Did you make any contact with anybody about seeing your children within the next, say, 30 days or beyond?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Debbie Rowe: Mr. Schaffel. I would call --
Mr. Zonen: How often -- I'm sorry?
Debbie Rowe: I would call him almost weekly. I didn't want to be a noodge, or piss him off, so I would call him and chat him up, and say, “By the way”, you know, “Are they back?” You know, “When can I see them?” Because it was my understanding they were out of town.
Mr. Zonen: For what period of time did you continue to contact Mr. Schaffel about that?
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, we object. Make a motion to exclude.
Mr. Zonen: I'd like to respond to it, even if at sidebar.
The Court: The objection is overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead.
Debbie Rowe: About nine months.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever see your children?
Debbie Rowe: No, I did not.
Mr. Zonen: To this day, have you seen your children?
Debbie Rowe: No, I have not.
Mr. Zonen: Have you gone back to court?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Have you reinstated parental rights --
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- for yourself?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Relevance.
Mr. Zonen: What did you accomplish in court?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; foundation; relevance; vague; and calls for improper opinion.
The Court: The objection to “What did you accomplish..”. is sustained as vague. That question is vague.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Were you able to get a ruling in regards to your custody of your children?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; relevance; motion to exclude.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead.
Debbie Rowe: Not regards to custody, but my parental rights were reinstated.
Mr. Zonen: At this time you have parental rights again, is that right?
Debbie Rowe: Yes, I do.
Mr. Zonen: Have you seen your children?
Debbie Rowe: No, I have not.
Mr. Zonen: Are you still in court making an effort to do so?
Debbie Rowe: Very much so. Actively.
Mr. Zonen: Have you ever seen yourself on television or any part of that interview that was conducted at Mr. Schaffel's house?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Where did you see it?
Debbie Rowe: I reviewed it last night. I hadn't seen it. I didn't watch it when it was on television, so I saw a video last evening.
Mr. Zonen: All right. That was the same video that you had reviewed once previously?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: But on the occasion last night, you viewed it with greater detail?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever see the Maury Povich film that was featured at a later time?
Debbie Rowe: I don't remember watching it.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever receive any money for your participation --
Debbie Rowe: No.
Mr. Zonen: -- in this interview?
Debbie Rowe: No.
Mr. Zonen: What was your motivation to participate in this interview?
Debbie Rowe: To see my children.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. I have no further questions.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, we'd like to renew our motion to exclude testimony into these areas.
The Court: I'll give you an indicated, subject to full argument, but at this point I would probably not grant that motion.
Debbie Rowe: Good morning, Mr. Mesereau.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning, Ms. Rowe. We've never spoken before, correct?
Debbie Rowe: No, we have not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Debbie Rowe: I'm Debbie. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: The prosecutor asked you some questions about your, for lack of a better word, current dispute with Michael Jackson in Family Law Court, correct?
Debbie Rowe: I wouldn't call it a dispute, but if that's the legal term, okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, the prosecutor asked you about whether you obtained rights or not - okay? - and I believe you said you have obtained parental rights but not custody rights; is that true?
Debbie Rowe: I corrected him, and said that my parental rights had been reinstated --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Debbie Rowe: -- when he mentioned custody.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, when did you first meet Mr. Schaffel?
Debbie Rowe: When Mr. Jackson asked me to do the interview.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you first meet him at the interview?
Debbie Rowe: Yes. Personally -- I had spoken to him on the phone. But personally, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And I gather you developed some type of friendship with him; is that true?
Debbie Rowe: I wouldn't call it a friendship. More of an acquaintance. More than an acquaintanceship, but not a friendship.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were calling him approximately every week; is that true?
Debbie Rowe: For about three months, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And at some point you were in contact with the Santa Barbara sheriffs about this case, correct?
Debbie Rowe: They had called me, yes. And I did not return the first call.
Mr. Mesereau: And eventually, you developed somewhat of a dialogue with Santa Barbara sheriffs about this case, right?
Debbie Rowe: When they caught me on my cell phone on my way home from Palm Springs, yes, the number they got from Marc Schaffel.
Mr. Mesereau: And you agreed to make what you called some pretext phone calls for the sheriffs, correct?
Debbie Rowe: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And a pretext phone call means basically you agreed to work with the sheriffs, telephone people and talk to them while the sheriffs were recording those calls; is that correct?
Debbie Rowe: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And the idea was that the people you would call would not know they were being recorded, right?
Debbie Rowe: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Only you and the sheriffs would know there were recordings, right?
Debbie Rowe: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, how many of these pretext phone calls do you think you made with or for the sheriffs?
Debbie Rowe: I think there were a total of four to six. I'm not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: And who were those pretext phone calls with?
Debbie Rowe: Marc Schaffel. Ian Drew. And I think I may have tried to do one with Dieter.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you able to do that one?
Debbie Rowe: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So the only people you recall actually speaking with when they didn't know the call was being recorded are Schaffel and Drew; is that right?
Debbie Rowe: And Dieter, if I did one with him, he wouldn't have known.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, Schaffel and Drew were there when you were interviewed?
Debbie Rowe: Yes, they were.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you arrived for the interview had you ever spoken to Mr. Drew before?
Debbie Rowe: No, I had not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet him for the first time at the interview?
Debbie Rowe: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: So you met Ian Drew for the first time at Marc Schaffel's home, right?
Debbie Rowe: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And after you met him, did you develop an understanding as to whether or not Mr. Drew would have a role in your interview?
Debbie Rowe: I was told he was the one that would be doing the interviewing.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he, in fact, do that?
Debbie Rowe: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And is he the one that had the list of questions you've described?
Debbie Rowe: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: And I believe you said you thought there were about 105 questions, right?
Debbie Rowe: He told me there were 105.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Drew told you that?
Debbie Rowe: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he ever show you the list of questions?
Debbie Rowe: He offered to.
Mr. Mesereau: And you refused, right?
Debbie Rowe: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You refused because you wanted to give a spontaneous type of response to whatever he asked you, right?
Debbie Rowe: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And I think it's fair to say that your responses were very favorable about Michael Jackson, right?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You answered questions for approximately nine hours; is that true?
Debbie Rowe: Yes. It was a very long day.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were asked all sorts of questions about what kind of person Mr. Jackson was, right?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You were asked about what kind of a father he was --
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- right? You were asked whether or not he was a good family person?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You were asked about whether he was a good friend of yours, right?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you, throughout that nine-hour period, were very positive about Michael Jackson, right?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you got there for the interview, your understanding was you were going there to help do a very positive, favorable piece about Michael, right?
Debbie Rowe: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And your understanding was that one of the purposes of this interview was to counteract the negative stuff that appeared in the Bashir documentary, right?
Debbie Rowe: I didn't know what the video was. I had never heard of Bashir. It was regarding something that had played in Europe and was going to be played in the United States. I didn't want to see the video. I didn't want to see the transcripts from the video. I didn't want to know anything about it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. But you knew there was -- the purpose was to respond to something in the media that had been negative about Michael, right?
Debbie Rowe: Negative, twisted, misunderstood, whatever it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And I believe you testified you were more than eager to help Michael in this area, right?
Debbie Rowe: Absolutely.
Mr. Mesereau: And as far as you're concerned, you did help him, right?
Debbie Rowe: I hope I did.
Mr. Mesereau: You spoke favorably about him and some of your comments were placed on a T.V. documentary, right?
Debbie Rowe: The show that -- whatever it was that aired for it, yeah. I think they said the Povich thing.
Mr. Mesereau: And you kept calling Mr. Schaffel for a number of months?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would see him from time to time, right?
Debbie Rowe: No, I never saw him. I saw him one time --
Mr. Mesereau: You had lunch with him one time?
Debbie Rowe: He set me up. Yes, I had lunch with him one time.
Mr. Mesereau: Where was that?
Debbie Rowe: The Ivy.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you say Schaffel set you up?
Debbie Rowe: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you mean by that?
Debbie Rowe: Apparently there was a meeting going on with Michael and some of his people, and I later found out that Schaffel and Dieter were not included. And so Marc had called me up and said, “Do you want to go to lunch?” And I said, “Sure”. I said, “Do you want me to meet you in the valley halfway? Do you want to come over here? I'll pick you up”. You know, “What do you want to do?” And he said, “Well, why don't I pick you up”. And I said, “Fine. Where are we going to go?” And he said, “The Ivy. Is that okay?” I said, “Sure”. I never had any problems at The Ivy before. So we went to The Ivy.
Mr. Mesereau: And would Schaffel call you from time to time?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you have previously commented that you thought Mr. Schaffel was using Mr. Jackson, true?
Debbie Rowe: Oh, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: You thought he was using him, manipulating him?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as lack of foundation. She said she just met him. Also improper opinion.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: You told the sheriffs that, in your opinion, Marc Schaffel was continually trying to take advantage of Michael Jackson, true?
Debbie Rowe: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you thought he was manipulating Michael Jackson to make lots of money, right?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you met Dieter at some point, true?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you meet Dieter?
Debbie Rowe: I don't remember if I met him anytime before The Ivy incident, but I met -- he was with us at lunch.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you meet Konitzer at some point?
Debbie Rowe: Years ago on tour, when he was doing “Those Cool Sunglasses”.
Mr. Mesereau: During the period of the interview -- I say “during the period”. That's a little bit vague. Let me withdraw that. Around the time of the interview, did you talk to Konitzer at all?
Debbie Rowe: I spoke with him when I spoke with Mr. Jackson to arrange it. And he and Dieter and Marc had been on the phone. They had been on the phone to tell me about problems that were going on, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've also made statements to the sheriffs that you thought Dieter and Konitzer were manipulating Michael Jackson, correct?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You thought Dieter and Konitzer were taking advantage of Michael Jackson, true?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you thought they were trying to manipulate Michael Jackson to make a lot of money, right?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your perception, based upon what you observed of Schaffel, Dieter and Konitzer, that those three were working together?
Debbie Rowe: Oh, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: You definitely got that impression?
Debbie Rowe: Oh, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And was it your impression that those three were working together to find ways to use Michael Jackson's name so they could profit?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And at one point you told the sheriffs that you thought Michael Jackson was, in some ways, very removed from what those guys were doing, right?
Debbie Rowe: In my past knowledge, he's removed from the handlers, the people who are taking care of business, and they make all the decisions. There's a number of times they don't consult him.
Mr. Mesereau: And you thought these three guys, Schaffel, Dieter and Konitzer, were doing just that, didn't you?
Debbie Rowe: Very strongly.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall if around this time you ever tried to warn Michael Jackson about Schaffel, Konitzer and Dieter?
Debbie Rowe: I did. I tried to go through my -- my -- I'm sorry, my old boss. And actually, when I did call, I was told that, “Be careful of Marc”.
Mr. Mesereau: And your old boss was Dr. Klein?
Debbie Rowe: Arnold Klein, yes. K-l-e-i-n.
Mr. Mesereau: What you're saying, you tried to communicate with Michael, through Dr. Klein, to warn him about what these three characters were doing to Michael?
Debbie Rowe: Or to look and see if he was aware of what was going on, if he even knew that I was still trying to see the children.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And one of the problems you had was that because of the custody issues, you were supposed to talk through attorneys, right?
Debbie Rowe: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And that created a problem in your ability to communicate with Michael, right?
Debbie Rowe: It was difficult, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Debbie Rowe: It was easy with Mr. Spiegel, Lance Spiegel.
Mr. Mesereau: And Mr. Spiegel was a prior lawyer for Mr. Jackson?
Debbie Rowe: For family, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. Now, approximately when did you -- when were you divorced from Mr. Jackson? Was it 1999?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And at that point you gave up custody of the children?
Debbie Rowe: No, not at that point. A year and a half later.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. A year and a half later you gave up custody of the children, and you had the visitation rights that you identified yesterday, right?
Debbie Rowe: Right. No, I'm sorry, I misunderstood. I gave up custody at the divorce. I gave him full custody. I had visitation - I'm sorry, I misunderstood - every 45 days.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately how long was your marriage to Mr. Jackson?
Debbie Rowe: Three and a half years.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And I believe you said yesterday you've stayed his friend, right?
Debbie Rowe: I've always considered him my friend.
Mr. Mesereau: And you still do, right?
Debbie Rowe: Yeah. If he'd talk to me. Sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: And without question, the communicating through lawyers has created problems with --
Debbie Rowe: Have you met Mr. Hall? Extreme problems.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. You're blaming the lawyers for a lot of that, right?
Debbie Rowe: Have you met Mr. Hall? You don't want to.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. How many times did you meet Dieter personally?
Debbie Rowe: Like -- I know for sure the one time.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk to Dieter on the telephone?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times do you think you talked to Dieter on the telephone?
Debbie Rowe: I think once or twice.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Debbie Rowe: I don't remember. They weren't eventful calls.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he call you or did you call him?
Debbie Rowe: He's -- I know he called me once, and I believe I called him.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did you learn at some point -- excuse me. Before I get into that, how many calls do you think you had with Drew, if any?
Debbie Rowe: From when to when?
Mr. Mesereau: Oh, around the time of the interview.
Debbie Rowe: I met Mr. Drew, he went back to Florida, I didn't see him for about a year. When he came back to Los Angeles, he called me and said he was back in town.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you develop a friendship with him?
Debbie Rowe: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, did you learn at some point that Schaffel was trying to make millions of dollars from the footage of your interview?
Debbie Rowe: Yes, I --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as lack of foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you learn that Schaffel was trying to make millions of dollars from the footage of your interview?
Debbie Rowe: He told me he was paid for it. He told me that part of the money that was made from it went for a debt that Mr. Jackson had owed him. I later found out that he took -- he told Ronald and Dieter that I wanted $100,000 for doing the interview. And I believe a check was cut - not to me. I wouldn't have taken it - and he kept it.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you learn this information?
Debbie Rowe: Some of it was from Ian. Some of it was from Marc himself.
Mr. Mesereau: And at one point Schaffel told you he was going to sue Michael Jackson, didn't he?
Debbie Rowe: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: He told you he wanted over a million dollars from Michael Jackson, true?
Debbie Rowe: He said Michael owed him a million dollars.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when did Marc Schaffel tell you he was going to sue Michael Jackson?
Debbie Rowe: Six months ago maybe. It may have been longer than that, but I'm not really good with -- if you could give me something to refer to at a time, I could say yes, it happened then. But I think it was about six months ago. And then he told me, about three months ago, that he and his lawyer were filing papers.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ever learn at some point that he had actually sued Michael Jackson?
Debbie Rowe: He told me that they'd filed the papers.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did Schaffel ever ask you for assistance in his suit against Michael Jackson?
Debbie Rowe: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he ever ask you for information to help him in his business dealings with Michael Jackson?
Debbie Rowe: I wouldn't have given it to him.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did he ever ask you for help, though?
Debbie Rowe: I'm sorry?
Mr. Mesereau: Did Schaffel, in your mind, ever ask you to help him in his business dealings with Mr. Jackson?
Debbie Rowe: No. He just bragged about either how he took advantage of an opportunity that I'm sure he knew nothing about or how he was going to do this, that or the other thing to make sure that Michael's career was saved, and things of that nature.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Schaffel tell you that he was involved in business matters with Dieter?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Schaffel tell you he was involved in business matters with Konitzer?
Debbie Rowe: Yes. In Europe.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you ever get the impression he was not giving Michael Jackson all the information about what he was up to?
Debbie Rowe: He was like everybody else around Mr. Jackson. Yeah, he wasn't telling him everything.
Mr. Mesereau: Why did you think Schaffel was calling you?
Debbie Rowe: To placate me. To say that, “Oh, no, I'm working on it. You'll be seeing the kids. Michael's very excited about it. Everything's going to be great. They're still in Florida”. You know, “As soon as they get home you guys will be together”.
Mr. Mesereau: And you didn't think he was being truthful, right?
Debbie Rowe: Obviously he's full of shit. Sorry. I'm sorry, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: You consider Marc Schaffel a liar, don't you?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You consider Dieter a liar, don't you?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You consider Konitzer to be a liar, don't you?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Mr. Drew appear to you to want to interact with Schaffel?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as speculative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You met Mr. Drew at Schaffel's residence, right?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were introduced to him through Schaffel, right?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your belief at that time that the two of them had some type of business relationship?
Debbie Rowe: Marc told me that Ian was a plant at one of the tabloids to run interference for bad publicity for Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you believe that?
Debbie Rowe: I didn't know, didn't care, didn't want to be there, but was there for the kids and for him. I -- you know, I wanted to get in and get out. I'm having about as much fun here as I had there.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that Schaffel was using Ian Drew for a particular purpose?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that purpose was to sew publicity that he wanted in the tabloids?
Debbie Rowe: To get information out. I don't know if I knew that it was -- if I knew that it was The Globe then that he was the plant for, or if Marc told me shortly thereafter. I think Marc told me at the day, the day that it was, so I knew that I was supposed to expect something coming out in the tabloids.
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Debbie Rowe: “Shockingly” was misinterpreted.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your impression that Schaffel was using Drew to promote Schaffel's business interests?
Debbie Rowe: If I'm considered a commodity to Mr. Jackson, then yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And as far as you were concerned, Schaffel was using you as a commodity, right?
Debbie Rowe: Schaffel was talking out both sides of his mouth, telling me one thing, telling Mr. Jackson something else.
Mr. Mesereau: You thought he was using the two of you, didn't you?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Schaffel bragged to you about the large sums of money he was going to make off of Michael Jackson, didn't he?
Debbie Rowe: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: He bragged about making millions of dollars off of Michael Jackson, didn't he?
Debbie Rowe: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: He did that many times, didn't he?
Debbie Rowe: Constantly.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Dieter brag as well about the millions he was going to make off of Michael Jackson?
Debbie Rowe: He wasn't as -- he was more subtle about it and spoke of it as plans for Michael, not actually to take from Michael. So it's a matter of semantics, I'm saying, you know, “I'm going to do it for Michael”.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Konitzer brag about all the money he was going to make off of Michael Jackson?
Debbie Rowe: He had big plans. So -- but they -- I didn't speak with him as often as I spoke with Marc. So those conversations weren't about that with Ronald. It was getting this project started and how they were going to -- how everything was going to be much better. And then I think I had another conversation with Ronald and Dieter afterwards when they called to say that everything was fine with the video, and “Thank you”, and “Things will be fine. We have big plans”, and stuff like that. I think there's only two times I spoke with Konitzer.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Dieter ever tell you that he and Konitzer were going to take over all of Michael Jackson's affairs?
Debbie Rowe: That was their plan, because he'd been mishandled.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Dieter ever tell you, “Don't call Michael Jackson. If you have any question about him, talk to me”?
Debbie Rowe: I wouldn't be allowed to call him. But if I had any concerns I would -- he said, you know, “Please call me”.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Schaffel ever show you any written agreements that he said concerned projects he was going to do with the Jackson name?
Debbie Rowe: The song. Didn't show me the contract, but that was one thing that he spoke to me about is that they were doing a song for Clear Channel or something.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times have you been to Schaffel's home?
Debbie Rowe: Once for the interview, and once to pick him up, and I have to remember where we were going. We had to drop a friend of his off in Hollywood someplace. Oh, we went to see Parviz, this guy Parviz. That's what we did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did Schaffel talk to you about an attorney named Mr. Geragos?
Debbie Rowe: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he tell you that he had picked Mr. Geragos?
Debbie Rowe: I don't know who picked him, but whoever did made a huge mistake. Come on. He pleads out or loses.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, in your discussions with the sheriffs, you made negative comments about Mr. Geragos, didn't you?
Debbie Rowe: Oh, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And didn't you also comment that you thought Mr. Geragos was doing --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as hearsay and speculative and irrelevant and beyond the scope of the direct.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know why you were asked by the sheriffs to record phone conversations with Ian Drew?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; speculative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did any representative of the sheriff's department ever tell you why they wanted you to record phone conversations with Ian Drew?
Debbie Rowe: It was very frustrating working with the sheriff's department. They don't give you any information. That's why I wanted to find out for myself what was going on.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ever record conversations yourself and then just give those recordings to the sheriff?
Debbie Rowe: No, that's illegal.
Mr. Mesereau: You just did it always with a sheriff involved with you?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When did you last talk to Mr. Schaffel?
Debbie Rowe: Conversation-conversation? Probably two weeks ago. Probably right before he got the transcripts from the conversation. But he had sent me e-mails that I had not opened. They're still on my account before I came up here.
Mr. Mesereau: So a couple of weeks ago you talked to him?
Debbie Rowe: Spoke with him, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Debbie Rowe: He was out of town and wouldn't be back for a couple of weeks. He said there was a family crisis or something. I was hoping his family wasn't ill.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you call him?
Debbie Rowe: I don't have a cell phone number for him anymore. I lost it. So when he was in town, the conversations were less and less after I had spoken with the sheriff's department and found the information out that I had found and the way I had been treated. And it's a little difficult for me to be civil to someone that I dislike.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, I gather you tried your best to let Mr. Schaffel think he could still communicate with you?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Up until two weeks ago, right?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that at the request of the sheriffs?
Debbie Rowe: No, that was more me. If he did get in touch with me, I did tell them.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you last talk to Ian Drew?
Debbie Rowe: He got promoted from his job just after the first of the year. I had dinner with him. There's a group of us that go out on Wednesday nights, and I think it was a month ago that I last talked to him. It was getting close to my uncle's birthday, so we did -- everybody has to come on this Wednesday night to not miss my uncle's birthday.
Mr. Mesereau: Your last communication with Dieter was when?
Debbie Rowe: Oh, a long time ago. Not within the last year, I don't think. Well, I think The Ivy incident was the last time that I spoke to him. I may -- oh, no, no, no, no. I did try to call him. Sorry. I did try to call him afterwards. And I may have made the one phone call. I don't remember if I made it or not. I haven't seen any of the stuff. So if there's something there, I'd be happy to look at it and tell you what was done and what was said and what was meant, if you'd like.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm just asking you.
Debbie Rowe: Blonde. I don't remember the day, you know. I think I did, but I can't totally swear to it.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Konitzer. When do you think you last talked to him?
Debbie Rowe: If I did, it was very shortly after the video.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Would it be accurate to say that your impression was that Schaffel, Konitzer, and Dieter were trying to profit off problems Mr. Jackson had?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object again as speculative and lack of foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Schaffel tell you that he and Dieter and Konitzer were going to make a lot of money off of the problems that came out of the Bashir documentary?
Debbie Rowe: They said they were going to fix the problem and bragged that they had made money.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; nonresponsive. “They said”.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: That bothered you, didn't it?
Debbie Rowe: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell Schaffel, “I don't like what you're doing to Michael”, or words to that effect?
Debbie Rowe: If I had said that, then I wouldn't have been able to find out what he was doing and try to get word to whoever was handling him, “You guys are going to get screwed”.
Mr. Mesereau: So what you were trying to do was make Schaffel think he could maintain a friendship with you, but what you really wanted to do was get information from him?
Debbie Rowe: Yeah. He was out to hurt Michael, in addition would hurt my children.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you feel Dieter was trying to hurt Michael and also your children?
Debbie Rowe: I think they're opportunistic vultures.
Mr. Mesereau: Would that be Dieter, Konitzer and Schaffel?
Debbie Rowe: Okay. You can do them alphabetically if you'd like.
Mr. Mesereau: You're talking about the three of them, right?
Debbie Rowe: All of them.
Mr. Mesereau: Who else are you referring to as vultures, besides those three?
Debbie Rowe: If it's a personal opinion, does it count?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as beyond the scope of the direct examination and speculative and improper opinion.
The Court: Sounds like she's got a long list. I think I'll sustain the objection. (Laughter.)
Debbie Rowe: Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Ms. Rowe, at some point, did you learn that Santa Barbara sheriffs had recorded a discussion with you?
Debbie Rowe: You did? You did? No, I didn't know that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Debbie Rowe: Damn you guys. You don't share anything.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn that any discussion you had with the Santa Barbara sheriff was, in fact, recorded?
Debbie Rowe: Well, if -- if you're referring to I was with them and, yeah, they were recording, so that's what I thought was recording. Did you bug my phone?
Mr. Mesereau: So at some point you knew they were recording -- at some point you knew they were recording a discussion with you --
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- right?
Debbie Rowe: It was a discussion with me with Marc Schaffel or with Ian Drew.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How about with you just alone with an officer?
Debbie Rowe: Oh, when I was speaking with an officer, yes, there was a -- an interview that was done.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where did that interview take place, if you know?
Debbie Rowe: Calabasas. And I can't give you the name of the place because I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know what officer that was?
Debbie Rowe: Officer Steve Robel. Sergeant Steve Robel, actually.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when that interview took place?
Debbie Rowe: Not off the top of my head, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall, at one point, you mentioned the possibility of going to The Enquirer? Do you remember that?
Debbie Rowe: Me?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. I don't know if it was -- you were joking or not, but do you recall saying something like that?
Debbie Rowe: It would have been totally joking and sarcastic and, “Let's see if we can mess with them”.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you talked about at one point Ms. Arvizo's orchestrating lawsuits. Do you remember that?
Debbie Rowe: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And you referred to the J.C. Penney case, correct?
Debbie Rowe: Probably.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you do your own research into what Janet Arvizo had done in the J.C. Penney case?
Debbie Rowe: Just by asking people who had heard something on the news. And I hadn't sat down at the computer and actually properly researched it, no.
Mr. Mesereau: And you told the officer that you --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as hearsay and irrelevant, exceeding the scope of direct.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: When you spoke to the officer in that interview, were you trying to in some way protect Michael from the Arvizos?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's because you thought the Arvizos were taking advantage of Michael, right?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as lack of foundation, exceeding the scope of direct.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: At one point you told Officer Robel that Schaffel had made seven and a half million dollars off your interview. Do you remember that?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Schaffel tell you that?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have any reason not to believe that he'd made seven and a half million?
Debbie Rowe: I don't know what shows go for. Michael doesn't do interviews, so I'm sure that anything that was televised or produced was worth a lot of money.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Schaffel offer you any of that money?
Debbie Rowe: No, and I wouldn't have taken it.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know -- did you have any idea why Schaffel told you he made seven and a half million off your interview?
Debbie Rowe: He likes to brag. “Look what I have. Look what I've done”.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Schaffel tell you any of that money went to Dieter?
Debbie Rowe: He didn't. The way he spoke about it was all him.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he tell you any of that money went to Konitzer?
Debbie Rowe: No, again, all to him.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that Schaffel, Dieter and Konitzer worked together or -- what was your understanding of their relationship?
Debbie Rowe: Michael had a previous relationship with Dieter and Ronald, so if Marc wanted to get in touch with Michael he could go through them, if he couldn't get ahold of him himself. But I think Marc felt that he handled everything in the United States. And that they were involved in the European things and in marketing or something.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you think Dieter, Konitzer and Schaffel were competing with each other at all?
Debbie Rowe: There was some --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as irrelevant, exceeding the scope of direct.
Mr. Mesereau: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Schaffel ever tell you he was in any company with Dieter and Konitzer?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as exceeding the scope of direct and hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember telling the officer who interviewed you, “Michael is very, very easily manipulated especially if he's scared”?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You were trying to tell the officers that Michael was being taken advantage of by these people, weren't you?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Debbie Rowe: I'm sorry?
Mr. Mesereau: You were trying to tell the officer that you thought Michael was being taken advantage of by these people, right?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you indicated in your interview you were there for about nine to ten hours, right?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How much of that time do you think you were answering questions?
Debbie Rowe: It was -- we were on that stupid couch for seven hours, with no breaks except to change film.
Mr. Mesereau: And was that you and Mr. Drew?
Debbie Rowe: I was on the couch. Drew -- Ian was opposite me, either in a chair -- I think he was in a chair.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So if you think you know, how many hours of actual interview do you think there was with you?
Debbie Rowe: The full seven hours. Except for the -- the time that it took to change videotapes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Debbie Rowe: I'm sorry. We didn't break for anything.
Mr. Mesereau: And you have before today, I believe you said last night the most recent time, seen a DVD of what purports to be that interview, right?
Debbie Rowe: It's not the whole interview.
Mr. Mesereau: And is that about two and a half to three hours long, the one you saw?
Debbie Rowe: It was about three hours.
Mr. Mesereau: And who gave you that DVD to watch?
Debbie Rowe: I asked for a copy from Mr. Zonen.
Mr. Mesereau: And you watched it last night, right?
Debbie Rowe: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And correct me if I'm wrong, I think what you're saying is that many hours of your interview don't appear in that DVD, right?
Debbie Rowe: I don't see how I could have sat there for seven hours and only had three hours on tape. I don't remember any breaks except for when the cameras were -- the film was being changed. I interrupted the interview to tell them the film was -- the camera was blinking, the light. I didn't want to be in the middle of the statement and have to start over again, to tell them that the lights were blinking, to change the film. I saw cuts in that film, in that tape, that were -- had nothing with me saying, “It's blinking, take it off”, so there's -- there is stuff missing from that video.
Mr. Mesereau: When Schaffel told you he'd made seven and a half million dollars off your interview, did he ever tell you who he made the money from?
Debbie Rowe: I think he said it was FOX Network. And someone in Europe. But I don't remember who it was in Europe.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that he kept all the footage of your interview?
Debbie Rowe: Yes. It was all taken upstairs to a bedroom where they did the editing that night.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How did you know they did the editing that night?
Debbie Rowe: I was there for about an hour when they were doing it.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you upstairs in the bedroom while they were doing it?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who is “they”?
Debbie Rowe: Marc was in and out. I don't remember -- I think it was Christian that was doing the editing. Ian told me he was going to be there all night to get the video done.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, Mr. Jackson wasn't there for any of that interview, was he?
Debbie Rowe: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you being asked to assist in the editing upstairs?
Debbie Rowe: No, I wanted to see what they were putting down. I'm a bit of a control freak.
Mr. Mesereau: So did they ever object to you being upstairs and watching what they were doing?
Debbie Rowe: No, it just got to be too late and too long a day and I had to go home. I had school.
Mr. Mesereau: But during the hour that you were upstairs watching the editing, what did you see them do?
Debbie Rowe: The very beginning of the interview talking about Michael, me speaking about Michael and what kind of a person he is. And the -- I gave them a list, not a written list, but a verbal list of things that I wanted included to make sure.
Mr. Mesereau: In that interview, what kind of a person did you say Michael was?
Debbie Rowe: Generous. To a fault. Giving and kind.
Mr. Mesereau: Anything else do you recall saying?
Debbie Rowe: Good father. Great with kids. Put other people ahead of him. Things like that.
Mr. Mesereau: If you can, do you remember anything else you said about Michael?
Debbie Rowe: He's a brilliant businessman. There's different Michaels. There's, like, my Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you want some water?
Debbie Rowe: And the Michael that everyone else sees.
Mr. Mesereau: And that would be the public Michael?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: That would be Michael the entertainer, right?
Debbie Rowe: Michael the entertainer, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first meet Michael?
Debbie Rowe: In the .80s.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you meet Michael?
Debbie Rowe: Through my office when I worked with Dr. Klein.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what was your position with Dr. Klein at the time?
Debbie Rowe: I was an assistant.
Mr. Mesereau: And Michael went to Dr. Klein for various treatments, right?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall when he first went to Dr. Klein?
Debbie Rowe: Yes. The very first day, yes. I was not his nurse then.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was the treatment he was receiving; do you know? Was it a skin condition he had?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object at this point. The question is, What was the treatment he was receiving?”
Mr. Mesereau: I'll withdraw it. I'll withdraw it.
The Court: All right. It's withdrawn.
Mr. Mesereau: You met him in the early .80s?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you continued to know him through the .90s until you were married, right?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long did you work for Dr. Klein?
Debbie Rowe: From .79 to 2001, I think it was, or 2000.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Debbie Rowe: I don't remember the exact dates.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall ever going on tour with Michael?
Debbie Rowe: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you first go on a tour with Michael?
Debbie Rowe: What was the tour after “Bad”? Was it the “History” tour, or “Dangerous”? It was the “Dangerous” tour, I'm sorry.
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object to communications between the witness and the defendant and ask that that be stricken.
Debbie Rowe: Sorry.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me try and ask it again. What was the first tour that you went on with Michael?
Debbie Rowe: “Dangerous”.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that?
Debbie Rowe: I don't remember. That was -- all those tours. And they all just ran together, because it was a long schedule.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was it in the .80s or .90s; do you know?
Debbie Rowe: I think it was in the early .90s.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where did that tour go to?
Debbie Rowe: I think it started in Bangkok, and went throughout Asia, Japan, Singapore. Then there was a break. And then it went to Europe. I did go to the last concert in Gutenberg, I think on the tour previous to that. Because Gutenberg wasn't on the “Dangerous” tour.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you traveling with Michael along with his physician?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you then went on another tour after that?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what tour was that?
Debbie Rowe: “History”.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And approximately when was that?
Debbie Rowe: It seemed like it was right after “Dangerous”, within a year or two after “Dangerous”. It could have been a little bit longer than that.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were on that tour along with the physician as well, right?
Debbie Rowe: We were married when that was going on.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Debbie Rowe: So, no. Klein would come every once in a while, but I was there every three weeks to see little Michael and Michael and to see how everybody was, because I was still working. I couldn't more often than that.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first meet Mr. Sneddon?
Debbie Rowe: The day before yesterday. Two days ago. When did I come up here? I came up here Tuesday. Today's Thursday. I came up here Tuesday.
Mr. Mesereau: I mean, your first time you ever met Mr. Sneddon was the early .90s, wasn't it?
Debbie Rowe: I don't remember. I remember I did a deposition. I thought it was for a woman. I don't remember. I don't remember any of that part. I tend to block out unpleasantries. I don't remember any of that part. I don't remember if Mr. Sneddon was there or not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Debbie Rowe: I think -- I think I just met him.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know when you were first contacted about this particular case by anyone associated with the sheriffs or the prosecution?
Debbie Rowe: It was -- there was a voice mail on my car phone, which I don't give out because it's stupid to give out a car phone if you're not in the car all the time. And they had gotten it through -- somehow probably through Schaffel, because that's how the tabloids got it. Because Marc Schaffel handed out that phone number, because that was the only one he had, because I had to call release from that line to call his house. So there was a message left, and I did not return the call. And then on a trip back from Palm Springs, probably eight or nine o'clock at night, it was dark, I'm going to guess it could have been a little bit later, but eight o'clock or 9:00 the phone rang, and I thought it might have been someone -- something wrong with one of my animals or something. And I answered it, and it was Sergeant Robel.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you know approximately when that was?
Debbie Rowe: I don't. I'm sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it like a year ago?
Debbie Rowe: Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you said Schaffel was giving information to the tabloids?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was he giving information to the tabloids about Michael Jackson, to your knowledge?
Debbie Rowe: He was leaking information.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, was he trying to profit from the tabloids with information about Michael Jackson?
Debbie Rowe: I don't think monetarily. I think maybe through manipulation, you know, “Maybe I can stop this”, or “I can talk to so and so and fix it”.
Mr. Mesereau: Has it been your belief that Schaffel has been trying to create problems for Michael Jackson so he could profit from them?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Asked and answered and speculative, lack of foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Schaffel ever tell you in your conversations that he was going to generate crises around Michael Jackson so he could then find ways to profit?
Debbie Rowe: Just this lawsuit. And I don't know the details of the lawsuit.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he tell you he intends to make millions from his lawsuit against Michael Jackson?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he tell you whether or not Dieter or Konitzer are still doing business with him when you last talked to him?
Debbie Rowe: When I was speaking with him, he didn't say anything about business.
Mr. Mesereau: But he said --
Debbie Rowe: He was more concerned about self-preservation at this point.
Mr. Mesereau: He said he's still talking to them?
Debbie Rowe: I think he is, yes. I think he is. I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: The question is did he say.
Debbie Rowe: I don't --
The Court: Is that an objection?
Mr. Zonen: That's an objection, nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained. Stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: You met with Mr. Zonen last night; is that correct?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have a long meeting with him?
Debbie Rowe: I watched the video there. And I spoke with him for maybe 20, 25 minutes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Mr. Zonen talk to you about what he was going to ask you today?
Debbie Rowe: No.
Mr. Mesereau: He just asked you pretty much to watch the video?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did this meeting take place? Don't give me an address, if it's where you were --
Debbie Rowe: Oh. It's in an office that they had.
Mr. Mesereau: That's the District Attorney's Office?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Debbie Rowe: I don't know the address. So I'm lost.
Mr. Mesereau: When was the last time any representative of the sheriff's office asked you to record somebody?
Debbie Rowe: I want to say last year.
The Court: Let's take our break.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, we have no further questions, and we withdraw our motion.
Debbie Rowe: Thank you.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: How many conversations did you have with Ronald Konitzer?
Debbie Rowe: One or two.
Mr. Zonen: Over the telephone?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And the length of each of those conversations?
Debbie Rowe: Minutes.
Mr. Zonen: Minutes? Did you ever see Ronald Konitzer interact with Michael Jackson?
Debbie Rowe: Not since I had met him in Europe on tour years before.
Mr. Zonen: So you're talking about conversations that may have taken place when, in the early .90s?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Since the early .90s, have you seen him interact with Mr. Konitzer?
Debbie Rowe: Physically, no. Just on the phone.
Mr. Zonen: Did you hear him interact with him on the telephone, in other words, conversations where you were present?
Debbie Rowe: When Mr. Schaffel was setting up the interview --
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Debbie Rowe: -- Ronald was there with Michael.
Mr. Zonen: Was that the only conversation that you had, were party to --
Debbie Rowe: No.
Mr. Zonen: -- involving Mr. Jackson and Mr. Konitzer?
Debbie Rowe: No. There was one or two after that. Just -- after the interview, thanking me, saying everything was going to be fine, and I don't recall if there was another one after that.
Mr. Zonen: Was Mr. Jackson involved in those conversations?
Debbie Rowe: No, he was not.
Mr. Zonen: That was just a conversation with you and Mr. Konitzer?
Debbie Rowe: No, Marc would have been on the phone. He did not have my phone number.
Mr. Zonen: All right. So it was a conversation involving you, Marc Schaffel and Ronald Konitzer?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And the subject of that conversations was what?
Debbie Rowe: Superficial. About the video.
Mr. Zonen: Nothing about Mr. Jackson's business affairs?
Debbie Rowe: No. Not with Michael on the phone, no.
Mr. Zonen: Did any of them talk to you about issues dealing with the Martin Bashir video?
Debbie Rowe: Before or after the interview?
Mr. Zonen: After the interview.
Debbie Rowe: When the interview aired, it did, and they said that the interview that I had done would help deflect and do damage control.
Mr. Zonen: Did they say that to you more than once?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did Mr. Konitzer say positive things to you about your involvement in this interview?
Debbie Rowe: About my possible involvement?
Mr. Zonen: No.
Debbie Rowe: I'm sorry.
Mr. Zonen: Did he say positive things to you about your involvement?
Debbie Rowe: Yeah. Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did he say that you were helpful?
Debbie Rowe: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did you believe that you were?
Debbie Rowe: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Was that your intent?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Do you still like Michael Jackson?
Debbie Rowe: I have very strong memories and feelings for the Michael that I have known but haven't seen since 1999. But those are based on my feelings. We haven't spoken.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Is it the case that the sum total of your communication with Mr. Jackson since 1999, six years ago, was a two-and-a-half-minute conversation that you described?
Debbie Rowe: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: And that was a conversation where he asked you to participate in this video; is that correct?
Debbie Rowe: To work with Ronald, Dieter, and Marc.
Mr. Zonen: Is it clear to you that he understood that you wanted to see your children?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did he ever call you to say that --
Debbie Rowe: No.
Mr. Zonen: -- or to invite you up to come see the children?
Debbie Rowe: No, he didn't.
Mr. Zonen: Who do you believe is responsible for your not being able to see the children?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: You can answer the question.
Debbie Rowe: He's their father. Ultimately it's his decision. I don't want to believe that. I want to believe that it's other people. I want to believe it's Marc Schaffel threatening him that I want to take the children, things like that.
Mr. Zonen: How long has Marc Schaffel been involved with Michael Jackson? When do you believe was the end of Mr. Schaffel's involvement with Michael Jackson?
Debbie Rowe: I think The Ivy incident was probably what tore it.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Debbie Rowe: Marc told me he was on the outs and wanted to do what he could to get back in.
Mr. Zonen: When did he file the lawsuit against Michael Jackson?
Debbie Rowe: I don't know how long it takes to actually get to court when you file a paper, or whatever, but he had talked about it about three months ago.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Debbie Rowe: So I don't know if he was filing the papers then, if he was getting ready to file the papers.
Mr. Zonen: All right. But your understanding is that Marc Schaffel hasn't had anything to do with Michael Jackson for a number of months now; is that correct?
Debbie Rowe: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And yet you're still being denied access to your children?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; relevance; foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: Is that true?
Debbie Rowe: We're -- yes, yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Well, then who do you think is responsible for that, if it's not Marc Schaffel?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; foundation; leading; and opinion.
The Court: It's argumentative. Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us, in your opinion, who is responsible at this time for your not being able to have access to your children?
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection.
The Court: Overruled.
Debbie Rowe: When I was first promised to see the kids, when Michael -- he called me, for me to show up when they were at that age of three and four, four and five, I could be introduced as a friend, as a friend of daddy's. And you don't confuse a child by saying, “Oh, this is your mother”. I can't do that now. They're too old. To do something like that, it would be too traumatic. I would not walk in and say, “Hey, I'm your mom”, you know, “Want to go out?” It's -- it's so much more complicated than that when reintroducing yourself to children who may or may not remember me.
Mr. Zonen: Are you saying that you believe that Mr. Jackson is amenable to your seeing your children; it's just a question of how?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; argumentative; no foundation.
Mr. Zonen: It's impeachment, Your Honor, as to the leading issue.
Mr. Mesereau: Improper opinion.
The Court: The objection is overruled. Do you want the question read back?
Debbie Rowe: No. Thank you. I'm hoping in my heart that he is. But we haven't spoken, so I don't know. I get to deal with Abrams and Hall.
Mr. Zonen: Why do you believe he hasn't spoken with you?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; argumentative; foundation; relevance.
The Court: Overruled.
Debbie Rowe: I don't know if he is concerned about this case. I don't know what his concerns are, if he thinks I'm going to take the children from him. I don't know. I haven't spoken to him. I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: How many conversations have you had with Dieter Weizner?
Debbie Rowe: The last conversation I had with Dieter I think was at The Ivy.
Mr. Zonen: And how many conversations prior to that?
Debbie Rowe: One or two.
Mr. Zonen: You said that you were set up, is that correct, at that --
Debbie Rowe: In my opinion --
Mr. Zonen: -- lunch?
Debbie Rowe: -- yes.
Mr. Zonen: What does that mean, “set up”?
Debbie Rowe: You don't go to lunch and then call the paparazzi to come and take a picture of you while you're trying to have a salad, and then someone runs across the street and almost gets hit by a car because they're taking my picture.
Mr. Zonen: You didn't mention that in cross-examination when you said that to Mr. Mesereau.
Debbie Rowe: Oh, sorry. I thought --
Mr. Zonen: Is that what it was that you believe to be the set-up?
Debbie Rowe: Yes, because Michael was having a meeting with his -- some group of people at the Beverly Hills Hotel or something. And Marc and Dieter were not included. So they were going to show him.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What does the presence of paparazzi have to do with that?
Debbie Rowe: I'm assuming because Marc Schaffel could not get to Michael, that if someone were to see it on T.V. or something, then it would be detrimental to him.
Mr. Zonen: How long has Michael Jackson had an association with Ronald Konitzer?
Debbie Rowe: I know that he knew him in the .90s doing marketing and things like that in Europe. I don't know, I haven't -- I haven't had any involvement with Michael since .99, so I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: All right. You offered the opinion that you believe that this group of people are taking advantage of him.
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Have you ever actually seen them interact with him?
Debbie Rowe: No.
Mr. Zonen: Are you aware of any of the transactions that have taken place between Mr. Konitzer and Michael Jackson?
Debbie Rowe: Just when Konitzer was on the phone with Michael to tell me that it was okay to work with these people to do what needed to be done for the project.
Mr. Zonen: And would you consider that to be a conversation for Mr. Jackson's benefit?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; vague.
Mr. Zonen: It's her opinion.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: The conversation that you had over the telephone with Mr. Konitzer involving your involvement in a rebuttal was supposed to defuse a difficult situation that Mr. Jackson was in; is that correct?
Debbie Rowe: That was my understanding.
Mr. Zonen: So that was for his benefit, for Mr. Jackson's benefit?
Debbie Rowe: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; argumentative. Same objection. Foundation; opinion.
The Court: Overruled.
Debbie Rowe: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: And that's correct. How many conversations have you been party to between Mr. Konitzer and Mr. Jackson?
Debbie Rowe: Just the one.
Mr. Zonen: That was the only one?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: So you don't really know what extent of communication they had between each other; is that correct?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence; foundation; move to strike.
The Court: Overruled.
Debbie Rowe: Only what I was told.
Mr. Zonen: Ahh. And told by whom?
Debbie Rowe: By Marc.
Mr. Zonen: Only Marc; is that right?
Debbie Rowe: And Dieter.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Marc is the person you believe to be an inveterate liar; is that correct?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: He told you that he was making seven and a half million dollars off of this production, the Maury Povich production?
Debbie Rowe: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: Is that correct?
Debbie Rowe: Yes, that's what I was told.
Mr. Zonen: Did you believe he was profiting from that production?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you understand that production to be a production for profit?
Debbie Rowe: I didn't care.
Mr. Zonen: But did you understand it to be a production for profit?
Debbie Rowe: If I assumed that, you know, if you're going to make it and sell it, yes, it's for profit.
Mr. Zonen: And you understood it was being sold?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: You understood it was being marketed?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And that, in fact, was Marc Schaffel's job, was to market that film?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And your involvement in it was to make it more marketable; is that true?
Debbie Rowe: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: Do you think it was inappropriate for Marc Schaffel to make a profit off that film?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Improper opinion; calls for speculation; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: In your opinion, should he have made some profit off that film?
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have any reason to brief that Michael Jackson didn't receive any profit off that film?
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Are you aware that Michael Jackson was given over a million dollars in cash by Marc Schaffel during that period of time?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence; foundation; move to strike.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Now, I'd asked you your number of conversations with Dieter Weizner. Is Weizner somebody you knew back in the early .90s as well?
Debbie Rowe: He said I'd met him. I don't remember. I met a lot of people when Michael was on tour. There was a ton of people involved.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a face-to-face conversation with Dieter Weizner in 2003?
Debbie Rowe: For the inter -- at The Ivy. Not for the interview or anything.
Mr. Zonen: And The Ivy was just the lunch that you had with them?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you stay and actually have a lunch?
Debbie Rowe: I was -- yeah, I was a wreck. They moved us inside until it was completely out of control, and it had -- I had to leave.
Mr. Zonen: So you didn't really have a conversation with him?
Debbie Rowe: We did talk.
Mr. Zonen: About what?
Debbie Rowe: About how they were going to -- that the people that were on the other side of town were inching them out and not including them, and that this would show them and get their attention because I was with -- with them.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, this was in 2004; is that right?
Debbie Rowe: I think -- I don't remember the date.
Mr. Zonen: This is well after the Indictment was returned against Mr. Jackson; is that correct?
Debbie Rowe: No. It was -- I believe it was before.
Mr. Zonen: Were you --
Debbie Rowe: I don't -- I don't remember the date.
Mr. Zonen: Were you already involved in having given information to law enforcement regarding this investigation?
Debbie Rowe: I think so. I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: You described Mr. Jackson as a brilliant businessman.
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Is that a true statement?
Debbie Rowe: In my opinion, yes.
Mr. Zonen: During the years that you knew him, you understood him to be very talented at the business end of his career; is that correct?
Debbie Rowe: I thought so.
Mr. Zonen: He was successful in making an awful lot of money during the years you knew him; is that right?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And he knew Mr. Konitzer and Mr. Weizner for over ten years, didn't he?
Debbie Rowe: I don't know how long they'd known each other. I don't remember when they met. I remember meeting -- like I said, I remember meeting Ronald when he was showing marketing things to Michael. I don't even remember what city we were in.
Mr. Zonen: But it was the early .90s, was it not?
Debbie Rowe: Yeah. Yeah. It would have had to have been. So, yeah, I guess that would be ten years.
Mr. Zonen: Would the same be true as to Dieter Weizner?
Debbie Rowe: I don't remember meeting Dieter. Even though he said I did, I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: So when did you understand Mr. Weizner's involvement with Michael Jackson to begin?
Debbie Rowe: The man carried six cell phones. I wasn't quite sure what -- I wasn't sure if he was a liaison, if he was doing the European marketing and working with Marc Schaffel doing the American things. All I knew is that the three of them were --
Mr. Zonen: Who are we talking about right now?
Debbie Rowe: Ronald, Marc and Dieter were involved in -- directly in the video and saving Michael after this documentary came out.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Is there anything that you saw that was put out to any of the tabloids or any of the newspapers by any of the three of them that you felt was negative to Michael Jackson?
Debbie Rowe: What do you mean?
Mr. Zonen: Well, you talked about Mr. Schaffel giving information out to the tabloids; is that right?
Debbie Rowe: Yes, but he did it to -- he said he could run interference. That was why he had Ian Drew as a plant at The Globe, to run interference, because -- I didn't know this, but I guess the magazines are all owned by the same company and they shuffle the stories around.
Mr. Zonen: What kind of interference?
Debbie Rowe: To keep bad stories or gossip, or whatever, out, so he would release good information to someone he thought was more reputable.
Mr. Zonen: Bad stories about whom?
Debbie Rowe: Michael.
Mr. Zonen: All right. So the work that they were doing was trying to boost his reputation?
Debbie Rowe: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: And improve his reputation?
Debbie Rowe: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: Not destroy him.
Debbie Rowe: After this documentary, correct.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Was it your understanding that the more money Michael Jackson was capable of making translated to the more money those three men were capable of making?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; relevance.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know Frank Cascio?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: How did you know Frank Cascio?
Debbie Rowe: I met his family years ago.
Mr. Zonen: Years ago?
Debbie Rowe: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: How old was Frank Cascio when you met his family?
Debbie Rowe: It was just after little Michael had been born. He must have been middle teens maybe. He was the oldest of the boys.
Mr. Zonen: You didn't know him as a person who was involved in Mr. Jackson's relationships or business affairs?
Debbie Rowe: No.
Mr. Zonen: He was a teenager?
Debbie Rowe: This is years ago. We're talking --
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Debbie Rowe: Yeah. No, no, no.
Mr. Zonen: Did he visit Mr. Jackson regularly?
Debbie Rowe: The family came up -- I knew him with the family, when Mr. and Mrs. Cascio were there with the kids, with the boys.
Mr. Zonen: Did you understand Frank Cascio's relationship with Michael Jackson to be very close?
Debbie Rowe: He was close with all the Cascios.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know Vinnie Amen?
Debbie Rowe: No.
Mr. Zonen: You made the statement, “If I'm considered a commodity of Mr. Jackson”. What did that mean?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Misstates the evidence. She was talking about Mr. Schaffel.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember making that statement?
Debbie Rowe: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What did that mean?
Debbie Rowe: I was sellable.
Mr. Zonen: Do you mean in conjunction with your giving this interview?
Debbie Rowe: Yeah. I don't do interviews.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever give an interview for the press?
Debbie Rowe: I did a couple of things with Chuck Henry in the late .70s. He was a newscaster for NBC in Los Angeles.
Mr. Zonen: You've given no interviews other than that?
Debbie Rowe: Not personally, no.
Mr. Zonen: Did you believe that made you more marketable?
Debbie Rowe: To do the interviews?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Debbie Rowe: I don't want to be marketable.
Mr. Zonen: I didn't ask that. I said, do you believe that it made you more marketable; in other words, for somebody else?
Debbie Rowe: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Do you believe that you were asked to participate in this interview because it would make the film more marketable?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Calls for speculation; foundation.
Mr. Zonen: It's her opinion.
Mr. Mesereau: And improper opinion.
The Court: Sustained for speculation.
Mr. Zonen: Did any of the three of them, Konitzer or Weizner or Schaffel, talk to you about your participation in this video in terms of mentioning that it would make the film more marketable?
Debbie Rowe: Yes, and that it would help Michael.
Mr. Zonen: Help Michael Jackson in terms of its marketability?
Debbie Rowe: Of the damage control from the Bashir document -- documentary thing, show.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. I have no further questions.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down.
Debbie Rowe: Thank you, Judge.
The Court: Call your next witness.
Mr. Zonen: Iris Finsilver, please. Your Honor, I'm sorry, I believe this may take a moment. I believe she's upstairs.
The Court: When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing.
Bailiff Cortez: Remain standing.
The Court: Please remain standing.
Iris Finsilver: Oh, yes, Your Honor. I'm sorry.
The Court: Face the clerk and raise your right hand.
Message: IRIS JOAN FINSILVER Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Iris Finsilver: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Iris Finsilver: Iris Joan Finsilver. I-r-i-s. J-o-a-n. F-i-n-s-i-l, V as in “Victor”, e-r.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Iris Finsilver: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Miss Finsilver, good morning.
Iris Finsilver: Good morning.
Mr. Zonen: You're not used to being on that side of the witness stand, are you?
Iris Finsilver: No, I'm not.
Mr. Zonen: What is your occupation?
Iris Finsilver: I'm a lawyer.
Mr. Zonen: How long have you been an attorney?
Iris Finsilver: I was admitted to the bar of Michigan in or about 1986.
Mr. Zonen: In then California?
Iris Finsilver: In California, I believe I was admitted in 1989.
Mr. Zonen: What kind of a practice do you have?
Iris Finsilver: Family law.
Mr. Zonen: And family law means what?
Iris Finsilver: Divorce, custody, child custody, support, family matters.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Is Debbie Rowe Jackson your client?
Iris Finsilver: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: How long has she been your client?
Iris Finsilver: Since in or about 1996.
Mr. Zonen: Did you represent her in her divorce with Michael Jackson?
Iris Finsilver: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Do you continue to represent her?
Iris Finsilver: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Were you present at the filming of an interview that took place in Calabasas at the residence of Marc Schaffel back in February of 2003?
Iris Finsilver: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Prior to doing that, had you engaged in any legal work to be able to allow Deborah Rowe to participate in that interview?
Iris Finsilver: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: What was the purpose of that?
Iris Finsilver: It was -- she had signed a confidentiality agreement, and in order for her to speak of Mr. Jackson, she would have to be released from the confidentiality agreement for the express purpose of speaking about Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: Did you draft that waiver of confidentiality?
Iris Finsilver: I think it was a mutual effort between Mr. Jackson's lawyers and myself. It was in fact, yes.
Mr. Zonen: But it was one that was drafted as a document?
Iris Finsilver: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: And was it one that required signatures?
Iris Finsilver: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Whose signatures were required on that document?
Iris Finsilver: Mr. Jackson's and Deborah Rowe Jackson's.
Mr. Zonen: And did Debbie Rowe sign the document?
Iris Finsilver: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: And to your knowledge, did Mr. Jackson sign the document?
Iris Finsilver: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: And following the signing of that document, did Miss Rowe participate in an interview?
Iris Finsilver: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Were you present during the interview?
Iris Finsilver: Yes, I was.
Mr. Zonen: Were you present during the entirety of the interview?
Iris Finsilver: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Approximately how long did that interview last?
Iris Finsilver: Well, I can tell you the whole day was about nine hours. And I can't exactly tell you how long the filming took place. It was many hours of filming throughout a nine-hour day.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Was there a man by the name of Marc Schaffel present?
Iris Finsilver: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know Marc Schaffel prior to that day?
Iris Finsilver: I had never met him prior to that day.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know his name prior to that day?
Iris Finsilver: I believe I did.
Mr. Zonen: In what context?
Iris Finsilver: In that he would be --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance and foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Zonen: Oh, you don't need to be told that, do you?
Iris Finsilver: In that he would be part of the interview that was going to be taking place, so that's how I heard of his name. And I knew that we were going to be going to Marc Schaffel's home, where the filming was conducted.
Mr. Zonen: And was that where it was conducted, at his home?
Iris Finsilver: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Was he present during the interview?
Iris Finsilver: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Was he present during the entirety of the interview?
Iris Finsilver: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did he periodically make comments with regards to the answers or questions that were given?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Iris Finsilver: Thank you. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you hear any representations from Mr. Schaffel at any time during the course of the filming that dealt specifically with the subject of Ms. Rowe's children?
Iris Finsilver: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. The answer was, “Yes”. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: What were those representations?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: Relevant for prior stated purposes.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead.
Iris Finsilver: I heard him, in connection with her answers, when she would give a favorable answer, “Oh, Michael will be very, very pleased about this. You're really helping him out of a big jam, and you'll go to Neverland and you'll see Michael and your kids”.
Mr. Zonen: On how many occasions did he give an answer of that nature?
Iris Finsilver: I recall two specific times. There may have been more. I just --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; move to strike.
The Court: The last sentence is stricken.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. I have no further questions.
The Court: Mr. Mesereau?
Mr. Mesereau: No examination, Your Honor.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down.
Iris Finsilver: Thank you, Your Honor.
The Court: Call your next witness.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I want to get an exhibit book.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: I was going to ask permission to go between there, but I'll....
Mr. Zonen: I apologize, Your Honor. I thought it would be a little faster than we expected, but we are moving ahead of schedule.
The Court: That's fine.
Mr. Sneddon: Call Andrew Dietz, Your Honor.
The Court: Come forward, please. When you get to the witness stand, remain standing. Face the clerk and raise your right hand.
Message: ANDREW R. DIETZ Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Andrew Dietz: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Andrew Dietz: Andrew R. Dietz, D-i-e-t-z.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Good morning.
Andrew Dietz: Good morning.
Mr. Sneddon: Mr. Dietz, you have a business -- you're going to have to lean into that mike. Okay?
Andrew Dietz: Good morning.
Mr. Sneddon: Good morning. Do you have a business?
Andrew Dietz: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And what is the name of your business?
Andrew Dietz: Air Apparent, Inc.
Mr. Sneddon: And where is your business located?
Andrew Dietz: Los Angeles, California.
Mr. Sneddon: And what is the nature of the business?
Andrew Dietz: It's a retail travel agency.
Mr. Sneddon: And basically could you describe for us what that means? What's a retail travel agency do?
Andrew Dietz: We arrange transportation.
Mr. Sneddon: And any other services you provide in addition to transportation?
Andrew Dietz: Not that I can think of.
Mr. Sneddon: In connection with that transportation, you make reservations at hotels and things like that?
Andrew Dietz: Yes. Certainly.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, in that particular business, what is your position?
Andrew Dietz: I'm the president.
Mr. Sneddon: And how long have you been associated with that business?
Andrew Dietz: Since 1980.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, is one of your clients MJJ Productions?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And how long has MJJ Productions been a client of yours?
Andrew Dietz: I believe around 15 years.
Mr. Sneddon: And what is the nature of the business services that you provide to MJJ Productions?
Andrew Dietz: We arrange hotel, air transportation, commercial air transportation, car reservations for many of the people that he employs and engages in work for himself.
Mr. Sneddon: What is the -- can you describe to the jury what the business relationship is in terms of how the services, once they're provided, how they're invoiced and paid and how that works?
Andrew Dietz: A call -- I think if you're asking how is business conducted --
Mr. Sneddon: Yes.
Andrew Dietz: -- a call's typically made and a reservation is usually made, a ticket is usually generated. It's then invoiced and sent to the client.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at the time that the ticket is made, do you have to -- do you have to pay for the ticket yourself?
Andrew Dietz: The minute the ticket is issued, it's my obligation to pay the carrier.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. I guess that was the question. And then you pay it and then invoice the client?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And then the client repays you?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Was that the type of business arrangement that you had with MJJ Productions?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at some point back in 2004, did members of the sheriff's department come to your business and execute a search warrant with regard to your records?
Andrew Dietz: Yes, they did.
Mr. Sneddon: And those records involved MJJ Productions; is that correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the time period covered by that was March -- February and March of 2003?
Andrew Dietz: I believe that's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, may I approach the witness?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Mr. Dietz, I'm going to hand you a book, and there are a number of exhibits in the book. And the first exhibit I'd like you to look at begins with 223 and I'd like you to look just quickly through 249, and ask you if you examined those documents yesterday, just to ensure they're the documents that you examined.
Andrew Dietz: Through what number?
Mr. Sneddon: 249.
Andrew Dietz: Did you say 239?
Mr. Sneddon: 249.
Andrew Dietz: I believe these are all the records that we reviewed last night.
Mr. Sneddon: And those records are records from your business; is that correct?
Andrew Dietz: That is correct.
Bailiff Cortez: Excuse me, sir.
Andrew Dietz: That is correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And these records generally deal with what type of transactions?
Andrew Dietz: Airline reservations, or airline tickets.
Mr. Sneddon: And are they records dealing with your business relationships with MJJ Productions?
Andrew Dietz: They are invoices which reflect transactions that we did.
Mr. Sneddon: I think you're going to have to lean into that mike a little bit.
Andrew Dietz: Those are invoices that relate to tickets that were issued to MJJ Productions.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, are these generally the records that are kept in the regular course of your business?
Andrew Dietz: Yes, but not in the manner in which they were given to you.
Mr. Sneddon: What do you mean by that?
Andrew Dietz: I mean the invoices are separated from the copies of the tickets.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. We'll get to that. But both of those documents are kept in the regular course of your business; is that correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the transactions that are reflected in those documents, do those reflect transactions that were made at or about the time that those events occurred?
Andrew Dietz: I believe they do.
Mr. Sneddon: By people who are in your organization who are responsible for documenting those?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Let's turn -- if you could get that exhibit book and put it back in front of you, I'm going to ask you a couple of questions.
Andrew Dietz: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to -- let's turn to Exhibit No. 224, if we can.
Andrew Dietz: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. On --
Andrew Dietz: 2-2-4?
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah, 2-2-4. 224.
Andrew Dietz: Gotcha. All right.
Mr. Sneddon: 224 has two pages in it, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to the first page, what is the title of that document?
Andrew Dietz: It's called an “Itinerary/invoice number”.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize that document?
Andrew Dietz: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: Can you explain to us how that document's generated?
Andrew Dietz: An agent in the office will book a reservation. The reservation system will then, at the agent's queue, ticket the reservation for the itinerary in question, and then an e-ticket is basically created for a passenger to be picked up at Los Angeles International Airport.
Mr. Sneddon: And then with regard to that particular document, how do you use that in your business?
Andrew Dietz: To collect money.
Mr. Sneddon: To collect money. That's the invoice part of it?
Andrew Dietz: That's the invoice part. The itinerary part is related to the -- for the accountant, business manager, to see the nature of the -- see the actual details of the flight, as would the ticket show you the same things, as relates to dinner or how long the flight was, things like that.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. So these are generated at or about the time of the transaction, contemporaneous with the transaction?
Andrew Dietz: Yes. In most cases.
Mr. Sneddon: And you say the invoice part of it. How does it serve as an invoice? How do you use that in your business practice?
Andrew Dietz: I mail them out for my services, and I expect them to get paid in a timely manner.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, the second part of that Exhibit 224 has what is called an agent coupon, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Would you explain to us what the agent coupon is?
Andrew Dietz: The agent coupon I believe represents our copy of the transaction for purposes of maintaining it for our regulatory people. In the airline business, you have to report your weekly sales of airline tickets.
Mr. Sneddon: So that would be a record used by you to be audited --
Andrew Dietz: We present the, quote, “auditor's coupon”, and we retain the agent coupon. A ticket has many different -- has flight coupons, as well as agent coupons, passenger coupons, and auditor coupons.
Mr. Sneddon: And how is the document -- agent coupon generated or prepared?
Andrew Dietz: It's one of -- as I just stated, it's I think a five-part document.
Mr. Sneddon: But internally that document is generated within your business?
Andrew Dietz: Within our reservation system.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, within your company, with regard to the agent coupon document, are those located in a separate place in your business?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: So they're not located exactly with the invoice and the itinerary information?
Andrew Dietz: Definitely not.
Mr. Sneddon: But they're both located and kept for business purposes?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And are the exhibits contained in the ones that you reviewed, 223 through 239 (sic), are those records regularly relied upon by you to conduct business?
Andrew Dietz: I believe they are, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'd move to admit 223 through 249 into evidence as business records.
Mr. Sanger: No objection.
The Court: All right. They're admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: And with the Court's permission, I'd like to remove a couple of the documents to publish.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: To ask some further questions. I don't need the lights just yet, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: There are two other documents that I want to show you before we go through the publication process. And I'm showing them to counsel. These have been marked, Your Honor, as 852, which is a three-page document from Air Apparent, and 853, which is a five-page document, or five pages in the document, which is also an Air Apparent record. And may I approach?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Mr. Dietz, I'm going to hand you the exhibit marked as Exhibit 852. I'd like you to take a look at that for just a moment.
Andrew Dietz: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Go ahead and take a look at the pages in that document. They're multiple pages. Do you recognize those?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Those are also documents that were obtained through the search warrant?
Andrew Dietz: I believe so.
Mr. Sneddon: And those are also records that are kept in the normal course of your business?
Andrew Dietz: I believe so.
Mr. Sneddon: And it is also, just for the record, an itinerary/invoice record, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And let me show you 853 and ask you if you recognize that. And the pages attached, there are five pages.
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recognize those documents?
Andrew Dietz: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And you were able to compare those documents to your actual business records to ensure that they were part of the records that were taken pursuant to the search warrant, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to those records, they were also made at or about the time of the transaction?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: By personnel --
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- in your office and kept in the normal course of business?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Thank you. Your Honor, I'd move to admit 852 and 853.
Mr. Sanger: No objection.
The Court: They're admitted.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, Your Honor, if we could have the Elmo, I'd appreciate it.
Mr. Sneddon: The document that's up there is 223, which is in evidence, okay? Now, do you recognize this document?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, at the top of the document I'm indicating a customer number. Are the individuals that you service assigned a customer number?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And that number carried over to all the business transactions that you conduct with that particular individual or company?
Andrew Dietz: Several accounts have different companies -- there is different -- there are some accounts that have different customer numbers.
Mr. Sneddon: In other words, an individual or a business may have more than one account with you?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. But wherever they are billed to, that number is used, either on one of the accounts or on another account with regard to that business or individual?
Andrew Dietz: The MJJ Productions had more than one account.
Mr. Sneddon: Correct. Now, the information at the top, it says, “MJJ Productions”. What is that information in terms of how you conduct your business?
Andrew Dietz: That's the mailing -- that's the mailing address that we've been requested to send invoices to.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to the next line down, it says “For”, and has “Gavin Arvizo, Star Arvizo, Janet Arvizo”. Do you see that?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what does that information reflect?
Andrew Dietz: I believe it reflects the passengers' names.
Mr. Sneddon: And obviously the next says, “Travel Itinerary”. This is the itinerary that was explored for these individuals; is that correct?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And lastly, it indicates whether the ticket is a one-way ticket or a round-trip ticket, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: In this case, this particular itinerary that was looked into was a one-way ticket for those individuals?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to this particular document -- look in the book, if you would, to the document in front of you that's 224, okay?
Andrew Dietz: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: On that particular document, the heading on it is “Itinerary and Invoice”, correct? On 224?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And this particular document only reflects the itinerary on the date of February the 5th, correct, of 2003?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: What is the difference, if there is one, in the use between the document reflected in 223 and the document that you just spoke about in 224?
Andrew Dietz: Well, the itinerary typically is a document which you would fax to somebody or e-mail somebody to inform that -- to more or less confirm with the person that requested the transportation that, “This is the itinerary request” --
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And --
Andrew Dietz: -- “correct?” And then we expect, you know, “That's right. Ticket it”.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to the travel itinerary, I want to go back to the date underneath where it says, “Travel Itinerary”, on 223, it says, “05 February, .03”. That would be the date of travel?
Andrew Dietz: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. We can take that one down. All right. This is Exhibit 852, all right?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Could you explain to us what this particular document is that is displayed as 852 and that has the heading “Itinerary/Invoice Number”?
Andrew Dietz: This is primarily what I refer to as an invoice. And as I was relating before, besides showing you how much the tickets cost, it also provides an itinerary for the passenger, or for the person paying the bill, so that they can see that -- whatever flight information they want to see from that.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, in this particular document, 852, it reflects that the customer -- it has a customer number, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that the customer number for one of the accounts for MJJ Productions?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And then the “To” section on this particular document, 852, is where you would send the bills to?
Andrew Dietz: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Right below are a couple of names. What are those names? Why are those names on that itinerary?
Andrew Dietz: That probably represents the passengers flying.
Mr. Sneddon: And then under “Travel Itinerary”, then that is the flight information, correct?
Andrew Dietz: That is correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And then on the Travel Itinerary it has, above -- on the line where I'm showing, it shows air -- “American Airlines Flight 1245”, and then it has across there “Business”. What does that reflect?
Andrew Dietz: The type of service. Business class.
Mr. Sneddon: Business class. And to your knowledge, how many types of services or classes are there on ordinary domestic flights?
Andrew Dietz: Primarily coach and first class. They throw in business as well.
Mr. Sneddon: And then down at the bottom it would be the total amount due on this particular invoice?
Andrew Dietz: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. The second page of the Exhibit 852, what is that?
Andrew Dietz: That's a copy -- that's the agent coupon.
Mr. Sneddon: This is what you told the jury about earlier in your testimony?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to this particular document, the information that is on this document, does it give flight information?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And does it give the name of the individual on it?
Andrew Dietz: Certainly.
Mr. Sneddon: So in this case, it says, “Christopher Carter”, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And it also contains the amount of money that's paid?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. The third and last document of page 852 is another agent coupon, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: It reflects a different name on it; is that right?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And the name being?
Andrew Dietz: “Danny Crawford”.
Mr. Sneddon: And these two names are the same names that are on the front page of the invoice/itinerary that you earlier talked about as Exhibit 852. I don't know if you have that in front of you. We can put that back up. Here it is. Same two names under the “For” section, F-o-r, in 852, correct?
Andrew Dietz: The first one said Christopher Carter. That makes sense. The second one said Danny Crawford.
Mr. Sneddon: And they correspond to the agent coupons that go with this document?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: The flight information matches up; is that correct?
Andrew Dietz: That's -- hold on one second. If you go back to the ticket, I can tell you.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Put the agent coupon back up. You may want to heighten that up a little bit.
Andrew Dietz: I'm trying to look first.
Bailiff Cortez: Okay.
Andrew Dietz: Can't see the flight information. J. American Airlines. I'm sorry, I'm not that familiar with these documents.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, excuse me. I'm sorry.
Mr. Sneddon: Let me --
Mr. Sanger: I couldn't hear the witness's last answer.
Mr. Sneddon: There was no question pending, I don't think.
Mr. Sanger: He was asked to look at the -- he said something about, “I'm not” -- sounded like he said, “I'm not familiar”, and I couldn't hear what he said.
Andrew Dietz: I said -- do you want me to answer?
The Court: He said that he wasn't that familiar with the document.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you, Your Honor.
Andrew Dietz: What are -- what do you want me to tell you about this document?
Mr. Sneddon: Let me just put that down. Let's put 852 back up. This is....
Mr. Sneddon: All right. On the document, 852, it has two airline ticket numbers, correct, in the lower left-hand corner?
Andrew Dietz: I can tell you if they're the same ticket numbers for sure --
Mr. Sneddon: You have to turn into the microphone.
Andrew Dietz: I can tell you if they're the same numbers if you go back.
Mr. Sneddon: You got ticket numbers on the invoice and itinerary.
Andrew Dietz: That I can see. 465, 466.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And then if you put up the other two --
Andrew Dietz: 466 and 465.
Mr. Sneddon: They match?
Andrew Dietz: That matches.
Mr. Sneddon: So they go with that flight?
Andrew Dietz: I believe they do.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Wasn't supposed to be that hard. It's hard to see from here. No problem. Let's try 853. All right. Now, this 853 is another document that's an itinerary/invoice, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: For March 2nd?
Andrew Dietz: Right.
Mr. Sneddon: And it reflects that there are four people who are supposed to travel under this invoice?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And four tickets issued down in the lower left-hand corner, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: With ticket numbers associated with that flight?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, I'm going to put up the first agent coupon for that flight. And I'll tell you what I'm going to do. I'm going to come up there and hand you 852, the first page. Make this easier.
Andrew Dietz: Yes. Thanks.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, looking at 852, and the front part of it that has the ticket information for it, and looking at the exhibit -- agent coupon, which is part of that exhibit, does the ticket number on the front of that invoice match the agent coupon on the Exhibit 853? Or -- 853, yes.
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's put the second one up. And -- excuse me. That was for an M. Jackson, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's put the second one up, the second agent coupon. Now, this particular agent coupon has stamped in the middle of it “Void”, v-o-i-d, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And could you look at the front of the document, the first page with regard to the ticket number? Does the ticket number on the agent coupon for a Michael LaPerruque match the ticket number on the front of the invoice for this particular document, 853?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to your business practices, what does it mean when you have an agent coupon that has “Void” on it?
Andrew Dietz: The ticket was not used.
Mr. Sneddon: And how is it that you become informed, in your normal business practices, that the ticket was not used?
Andrew Dietz: In our normal business practices?
Mr. Sneddon: Right.
Andrew Dietz: Either they don't show up at the airport, or somebody calls in and tells us to cancel the reservation.
Mr. Sneddon: Are you also -- are you given any information from the airlines themselves that reflects whether the person was on the flight or not?
Andrew Dietz: No -- yes. For e-tickets, the person has to pick up the e-ticket.
Mr. Sneddon: And if they don't, then you're notified?
Andrew Dietz: Then we're notified.
Mr. Sneddon: And --
Andrew Dietz: To the best of my knowledge.
Mr. Sneddon: And the particular stamp “Void” that's on the ticket agent -- or the agent coupon, on this one for Mr. LaPerruque, is that placed on there by your staff in the regular course of your business in the performance of their responsibilities?
Andrew Dietz: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is this document used to adjust any billings that may have occurred where a ticket wouldn't be used?
Andrew Dietz: Certainly.
Mr. Sneddon: Let's go back to the document you have in front of you, which is 853, okay?
Andrew Dietz: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: So we're all on the same page. 853 is a billing for four tickets in the total amount of what?
Andrew Dietz: $6,644.
Mr. Sneddon: And if this ticket -- if this particular ticket to Mr. LaPerruque isn't used, then you have to adjust your billings accordingly; is that correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's go to the next one. The next agent coupon involves an individual by the name of Marie Cascio. Do you see that?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And on the exhibit that you have in front of you, the itinerary invoice, does the name “Marie Cascio” appear?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is the ticket number assigned to her on the exhibit number of the first age, 853, the same as the ticket number on the agent coupon that the jury's looking at?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And again, this one is stamped with “Void”, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Meaning she did not take the trip?
Andrew Dietz: She did not make that trip.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's put up the last one. The last agent coupon associated with the invoice 853 is an Aldo Cascio, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Does the ticket number on this particular document, the agent coupon, match up with the ticket number on the first page of 853?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And again, this one is stamped with “Void”, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Indicating the person did not make the flight?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: I think we can have the lights, Your Honor. Thank you. I have two more documents, Your Honor, that I'd like to have marked for identification. 854 and 855 for identification purposes. I'm showing them to counsel. He's seen them.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Mr. Dietz, I'm going to take this back so we don't lose it. You can swing around there. I'm going to show you a document that -- it's actually a three-page document, front, back and then front, entitled, “Client Summary”, and ask you to look at that document. Do you recognize that document?
Andrew Dietz: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And does that document for the time period of - may I have it back just a second, just to make sure I've got this right? - February 5th, 2003, through February 12th, 2003, reflect the summary of the transactions that -- and services provided by your company to MJJ Productions?
Andrew Dietz: Not this in front of us. This is only two pages.
Mr. Sneddon: No, the back page.
Mr. Sanger: I'm sorry, I can't hear the witness.
Mr. Sneddon: He said --
Mr. Sneddon: Lean into it and say what you said.
Andrew Dietz: I'm sorry, I thought we did more transactions than this in that time frame. There must be another client summary.
Mr. Sneddon: This is only for the 5th to the 12th.
Andrew Dietz: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Leading and argumentative.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sneddon: Go ahead and take the paper clip off and look at all three pages. Have you looked at all three pages?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. You --
Andrew Dietz: But they only reflect activity through February 12th, when this is for February 1st through March 31st.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. But the caption at the right is -- has a larger period, correct?
Andrew Dietz: That's right.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, I want to show you --
Andrew Dietz: And there's transactions that you've shown me that are clearly not on here.
Mr. Sneddon: Now I want to show you Exhibit 855.
Andrew Dietz: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: And take the clip off and look at them front and back, if you would.
Andrew Dietz: Okay. Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: You've seen those documents before, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: You saw them last night?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Are those the other transactions that you had in mind between this time period in question?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Objection; calls for hearsay.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sneddon: And this particular document, which is 13 pages in length, covers the period 2-12-03 --
Andrew Dietz: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: -- correct? And ends at the end of March of 2003, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Uh-huh. Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now -- all right. Why don't you keep these for just a second. All right. Now, Mr. Dietz, with regard to the Exhibit 854, does that have an account number on it?
Andrew Dietz: 854. Yes, it does.
Mr. Sneddon: What's the account number?
Andrew Dietz: 1359.
Mr. Sneddon: What's the customer?
Andrew Dietz: MJJ Productions, Inc.
Mr. Sneddon: You're going to have to lean into the mike.
Andrew Dietz: MJJ Productions, Inc.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, let's look at Exhibit 855, if we can.
Andrew Dietz: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: What's the billing account on that particular series of transactions?
Andrew Dietz: MJJ Productions, Inc.
Mr. Sneddon: That's the customer?
Andrew Dietz: That's the customer.
Mr. Sneddon: What's the account number?
Andrew Dietz: 1656.
Mr. Sneddon: It's a different account from the other -- from Exhibit 854, correct?
Andrew Dietz: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to the information that is reflected in those client summary forms - okay? - the information reflected in those, is that information that you keep in the normal course of your business?
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object, Your Honor. There's a lack of foundation as to who prepared these and where they came from.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, that's what I'm trying to do.
The Court: The objection is overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Sneddon: Is the information contained in these documents, Client Summary, information that you utilized in your business to bill clients and to keep a history on the services you provide to those clients?
Andrew Dietz: Is the information?
Mr. Sneddon: Yes.
Andrew Dietz: Yes, the information is.
Mr. Sneddon: And then that information, in this particular case with regard to MJJ Productions' accounts during this time period, was put into this format, correct?
Mr. Sanger: Objection; lack of foundation.
The Court: I don't know what the question -- really what you're asking him. Maybe you do, but I don't.
Mr. Sneddon: If you don't, the jury doesn't, so I better start over again.
Mr. Sneddon: The documents that you have, let's start with them individually. 854, the Client Summary for 854, okay?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Did your -- did your business prepare those documents?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And -- you have to lean into the microphone.
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did your business -- did the information contained on the document, 854, come from business entries of documents that you maintained in the regular course of your business, information that you maintained?
Andrew Dietz: Yes. It's a computer-generated report. It's something we made up. It's something that the computer generates based on the subpoena we received, which was to give us all the transactions that occurred between February 1st and March 31st.
Mr. Sneddon: And between the documents 8 -- in 855, the document 855, look at that. That's a Client Summary?
Andrew Dietz: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that the same -- would you make the same statement with regard to that document? It's information generated from your computers?
Andrew Dietz: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And --
Andrew Dietz: For the purposes of the subpoena.
Mr. Sneddon: Correct. Now, with regard to those particular documents, do they cover the transactions that are reflected in the Exhibits 223 through 249?
Andrew Dietz: I haven't had time to do that, but I would assume they do.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, yesterday --
Mr. Sanger: Excuse me. Move to strike as speculation.
The Court: Sustained. Stricken.
Mr. Sneddon: Yesterday, you were asked to look at those Client Summary forms and compare them with certain transactions to confirm whether or not particular invoices were sent in certain amounts for certain flights, correct?
Mr. Sanger: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Andrew Dietz: Can you say that again?
The Court: I can have it read back to you. Just a moment.
The Court Reporter: Yesterday, you were asked to look at those Client Summary forms and compare them with certain transactions to confirm whether or not particular invoices were sent in certain amounts for certain flights, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes, we briefly looked at this Client Summary for a few -- for a few -- I would say for less than 30 seconds. And I referred -- I actually remember going back to it once or twice with respect to one or two invoices on it.
Mr. Sneddon: Right.
Andrew Dietz: Rather than every one on them. So I couldn't attest to every one. In general --
Mr. Sneddon: We discussed in general --
Andrew Dietz: We discussed the ones you've already brought up.
Mr. Sneddon: Let's just establish that, okay?
Andrew Dietz: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: I want to move -- Mr. Sneddon's comments about what he discussed, move to strike those.
Mr. Sneddon: I don't have a problem with that, Judge. I'll just ask the question.
The Court: All right. Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: Mr. Dietz, with regard to the Documents 854 and 855 --
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- yesterday you and I discussed how those documents were prepared, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Objection; leading.
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
The Court: Overruled. The answer is, “Yes”. Next question.
Mr. Sneddon: And then I asked you to take those documents and look at a couple of specific flights, did I not?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Leading, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to the transaction reflected in the Document 853 --
Andrew Dietz: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- all right? - were you asked to look at your Client Summary form to determine whether or not the invoice reflects a charge of 6,000 -- whatever it is, $6,600 for those four people, or whether it reflects a flight of one person?
Andrew Dietz: It reflects -- I believe it reflects the price of one person.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to move to strike that answer on the grounds that it's based on hearsay. And there's no foundation.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I think he's -- the records are before the Court, and he's simply using this to verify the authenticity of those records.
Mr. Sanger: Objection to speaking responses.
Mr. Sneddon: Well --
The Court: Well, it seems to me you haven't offered them as business records.
Mr. Sneddon: I was getting there. I was trying to lay the foundation for that, as to the relevancy first, and then I was going to go into that. Perhaps if you --
The Court: I think if you go to the business record foundation first, and then they're either admitted or not admitted, then you're -- if they're admitted, then you can question him in the way you're questioning him.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
The Court: And I know I might be not quite understanding still the record that he's looking at.
Mr. Sneddon: Let me ask one other question. It might help the Court guide us through this.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Make it a little clearer.
Mr. Sneddon: Mr. Dietz, you're going to have to lean into the microphone there, okay?
Andrew Dietz: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: Mr. Dietz, with regard to the Exhibit 853 - okay? - that's the one that has the void tickets on it.
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- does your business maintain information that would reflect the adjustment as to whether or not the original invoice is sent to your client for payment or some subsequent amount is sent to reflect the voids?
Andrew Dietz: The original invoice may have definitely been mailed out. Actually, no, I know that it was not mailed out. It was adjusted to reflect that one passenger -- that only one e-ticket was issued.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, going to the Client Summary form, okay?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do the Client Summary forms contain information maintained by your business in the normal course of business to reflect the transactions that occurred on the exhibits that I showed you, 223 to 249?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And that information is kept in the normal course of your business, correct?
Andrew Dietz: The information on that summary is.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes.
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to the mode and time of the preparation of that information as it's placed into your computer, it's made at or about the time of the transactions; is that correct?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. That -- there's a lack of foundation. That's the connection. Lack of foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Andrew Dietz: Can you repeat the question?
The Court: Yes.
The Court Reporter: And with regard to the mode and time of the preparation of that information as it's placed into your computer, it's made at or about the time of the transactions; is that correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes and no.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes and what?
Andrew Dietz: Reservations can be made. It's only -- an invoice is generated only when the reservation is turned into a ticket.
Mr. Sneddon: Right. And that's what we're talking about here.
Andrew Dietz: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Move to strike counsel's comment.
Mr. Sneddon: Well --
The Court: Overruled. Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: Just so there will be no question about it, the exhibits we're talking about, except for the one exhibit, 223, all reflect transactions that occurred, correct, tickets were issued?
Andrew Dietz: Except for --
Mr. Sanger: I'm sorry, I have to object. What exhibits are we talking about, except for 223? Vague.
Mr. Sneddon: I'll clarify it.
Mr. Sneddon: I asked you to look at the documents 223 through 249, and then I asked you to look at 852 and 853, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Are those all transactions that occurred between you, Air Apparent, your company, and MJJ Productions?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to the information contained on those transactions, is that the information that's downloaded to your computers?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you use that for your business purposes?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to the exhibits, now getting back to 854 and 855 - all right? --
Andrew Dietz: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: -- they contain a client summary - correct? --
Andrew Dietz: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: -- of all of those transactions from information that was loaded into your computers at or about the time of the transactions?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. I move they be admitted.
Mr. Sanger: And I would object.
Mr. Sneddon: Let me ask one more question. I want to ask one more question, and this may take care of it.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to the Client Summary form - okay? - and the information that's on that form - okay? - does that information -- from that information, are you able, in the due course of your business, to be able to provide invoices to clients to be paid that may be different than the original invoices that were sent out?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now I move they --
Andrew Dietz: But not in that form.
Mr. Sneddon: I understand that. But that's what the information is used for, correct, the information that's in your computer?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object. It's leading; argumentative; statements of counsel.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sneddon: I think the point you're trying to make -- and I think you made it, but let's just make sure that the jury understands. What you're --
Mr. Sanger: Move to strike comments of counsel, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: The Client Summary form was a form that was produced specifically to respond to the search warrant, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: That form itself is not something that you use ordinarily, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. But the information on the form is all information that you house at your place of business to conduct business, correct? It was just downloaded into a different format?
Andrew Dietz: I -- yes.
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Well -- I was going to object, compound.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. We'll break it up.
Mr. Sneddon: Is it information that you maintain at your place of business to conduct business?
Andrew Dietz: Is what, the --
Mr. Sneddon: The information on those forms.
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that input into your computer?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And is that information --
Andrew Dietz: That's the output. That is the output from input.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, let's go back. It's a matter of semantics.
Andrew Dietz: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: The information on the form is the output?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: The information that went into the computer is the input?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: The information that's input is information that you keep in the normal course of your business?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: It happened to be output into this format for this trial?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: But reflects information that you keep?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now I move that they be admitted.
Mr. Sanger: And I object and request either to have an opportunity to voir dire or ask the Court to reserve ruling until cross.
The Court: Well, I think he needs to ask him some questions about this, so I'll let you voir dire now, rather than wait. I don't think that's productive.
Mr. Sanger: That's fine. That's why I offered. Thank you.
Message: VOIR DIRE EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Mr. Dietz, how are you doing?
Andrew Dietz: Good. How are you doing?
Mr. Sanger: I'm doing fine, thank you. On 854 and 855, it's my understanding that you had not seen those document before they were shown to you by the District Attorney; is that correct?
Andrew Dietz: Um, before last evening?
Mr. Sanger: Yes.
Andrew Dietz: I might have looked at them in preparation for coming up here.
Mr. Sanger: You're not sure?
Andrew Dietz: I'm not sure.
Mr. Sanger: And those are not documents that you downloaded from your computer; is that correct?
Andrew Dietz: I don't believe I downloaded them. I believe one of my accounting staff did.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So you're assuming that that was something somebody on your accounting staff did; is that correct?
Andrew Dietz: I'm pretty certain that it's something that somebody did on my accounting staff.
Mr. Sanger: You have not had an opportunity to verify whether or not the billing amounts, the invoice amounts to the particular client, are accurate in each regard on those two exhibits; is that correct, sir?
Andrew Dietz: Do you mean the invoices to the statement?
Mr. Sanger: Yes. In other words --
Andrew Dietz: To the Client Summary that's been presented?
Mr. Sanger: Let me withdraw it. Your question indicates that my question was not clear.
Andrew Dietz: All right.
Mr. Sanger: On 854 and 855 --
Andrew Dietz: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: -- these client billing summaries --
Andrew Dietz: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: -- they show invoice amounts to the client, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: You have not had an opportunity to determine whether or not the invoice amounts shown on those documents are accurate in each case; is that correct?
Andrew Dietz: Not in each case.
Mr. Sanger: And these documents, as far as you knew, were prepared for the purposes of this litigation; is that right?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I have no further questions on voir dire, and I object.
The Court: Does that material on the printouts on 854, 855, is that a compilation of the material that's in your computer on this particular account?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
The Court: All right. Your objection is overruled. They're admitted as a compilation. But after that --
Mr. Sneddon: I should have let you ask the questions, Your Honor. We'd be way ahead of the game.
The Court: Well, I've just got to start this break early. That was so painful. (Laughter.)
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: All right. Mr. Sneddon, go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: Mr. Dietz, I placed in front of you the document that's in evidence. That's 853, all right? And does that document have or bear an invoice number?
Andrew Dietz: Yes, it does.
Mr. Sanger: What is that invoice number?
Andrew Dietz: 0143505.
Mr. Sanger: And the amount of money that's indicated on that invoice number is what?
Andrew Dietz: $6,644.
Mr. Sanger: For four tickets?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to place on the Elmo, Your Honor, if I might have it for just a moment, page six of Exhibit 855. No, the other one. Back. Back. There. All right.
Mr. Sanger: The information contained on page six of Exhibit 855 has the date in the far left-hand corner; is that correct?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And moving down the date to March 1st, 2003, in the second column over, what does the number 143505 refer to?
Andrew Dietz: The invoice number.
Mr. Sanger: And with regard --
Mr. Sanger: Excuse me.
Mr. Sneddon: -- to the far right-hand side of the exhibit at the top, it bears the word “fare”, correct, f-a-r-e?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And with regard to the flight on Invoice No. 143505, you billed $1,661, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Is the invoice number and trip reflected on page six of the Exhibit 855 the same trip that's represented by the invoice number on 853?
Andrew Dietz: You got me there. Where is 855?
Mr. Sanger: 853, the one in your hands. 855 is the one on the board.
Andrew Dietz: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Is that the same trip?
Andrew Dietz: That is the same trip, but the invoice was -- the ticket was issued the weekend. It was changed over the weekend, or reservations were cancelled. Flights were issued, e-tickets were issued. Three of the passengers did not travel --
Mr. Sanger: So this --
Andrew Dietz: -- on this itinerary.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So 855 reflects the fact that only one person traveled on that itinerary that's been marked as 853 that's in your hand, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: I couldn't hear you.
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. No further questions.
Mr. Sanger: Can I have the exhibits, please?
Mr. Sneddon: I was going to put them back together again. If you want to have them, here.
Mr. Sanger: Why don't we keep them out for now, please.
Mr. Sneddon: The rest of them are up there.
Mr. Sanger: May I approach to retrieve the exhibits?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'm just a little concerned, Your Honor. Mr. Sneddon said he was going to put them back together, so I think I will give them to Mr. Sneddon so they get in the right position there.
Mr. Sneddon: They're all in order except for the one that was taken away from me.
Mr. Sanger: All right. There it is.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: All right. First of all, on -- with regard to these summaries you just saw up on the board, particularly you took a look at one of the pages, I think it was page six, and it showed the amount that was billed, and it showed it was billed for one person to travel, right?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Say a word so the court reporter can get it down.
Andrew Dietz: Sorry.
Mr. Sanger: That's okay. You are assuming that that record was accurately placed into the computer database by whoever entered these things; is that correct?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And you noted from the other actual tickets that it appeared that three of the tickets, the ones for the Cascios, I believe, were voided?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. There was the Cascios and LaPerruque, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: They were voided. You look at that, and you pretty much figure, well, as far as your company was concerned, the person that traveled on that particular day was Mr. Jackson?
Andrew Dietz: I would not necessarily assume that.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I was going to ask you how you would come to that conclusion. So you're saying you don't know that?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, I want to show you -- you have the book in front of you there --
Andrew Dietz: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: -- with the exhibits in the 200 series. And I'd ask you to turn to Exhibit 223, and I believe that that is a two-page exhibit; is that correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And, Your Honor, with the Court's permission, I would like to put the copy I was given of those two pages up on the -- on the board, if I may.
The Court: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Or up on the machine.
Mr. Sanger: And I'm going to show you the first page of exhibit -- the 223. And that's already been up there before, but I'll ask you to look at that again. And this appears to be an itinerary that was generated somehow, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: That's not your usual format for itineraries that are generated, is it?
Andrew Dietz: For itineraries, I believe it is.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. All the other itineraries that you have shown for Exhibits 224 through 249 are generated on letterhead, with a different font, in a different format; isn't that correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes, they're associated with an invoice.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, this particular one was not associated with an invoice because it was not sent -- an invoice was not sent for payment on this flight; is that correct?
Andrew Dietz: I cannot tell from what I see here.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Do you know whether or not that flight took place?
Andrew Dietz: I do not know.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And ordinarily when flights are booked through your agency by MJJ Productions, who is it that contacts you to book the flights?
Andrew Dietz: Evvy.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And I'll tell you what. I'm going to ask you to just turn around and look this way, and I'll direct your attention to the board in a second when we put the next one up, but it's hard for everybody to hear you.
Andrew Dietz: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: So Evvy Tavasci is ordinarily the person who would be contacting your agency, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And she contacts your agency not just for Mr. Jackson's travel arrangements, but for other employees of MJJ Productions, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Definitely.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And to your knowledge, if some other employee of MJJ Productions needs to travel for some business-related purpose, they would contact her, and she would in turn contact you; is that correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: When you make a flight arrangement for Evvy Tavasci, or at her -- at her request, do you fax a confirmation?
Andrew Dietz: I'm not sure. I don't know our daily practices.
Mr. Sanger: You're not the person that actually does it?
Andrew Dietz: Not at all.
Mr. Sanger: You just own the place?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: There you go. All right. Well, let me show you this anyway and see if this is -- this is the second page I'm going to put up of this exhibit, and I'd like you to read the top -- no, I'm kidding. (Laughter.)
Mr. Sanger: I'd like you just to look down at the bottom there. There's a TX Result Report.
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Is that a fax report?
Andrew Dietz: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: Now, I am going to focus in on that a little bit more here. Give you a fair chance. Do you recognize the telephone or the fax number that that was sent to as being a fax number associated with anybody?
Andrew Dietz: I do not.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And it appears that this fax -- just go a little wider there. The result on the right is that it did not go through. It's “NG”, correct?
Andrew Dietz: That's what it looks like to me.
Mr. Sanger: And it says, “Redial, all failed”, right?
Andrew Dietz: That's what it looks like to me.
Mr. Sanger: Now, your business has regular communications -- during this period of time, your business had regular communications with Evvy Tavasci, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you had a good fax number for her, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Is there any indication in these two documents -- and you can actually look at the documents in front of you, since I just have a copy here.
Andrew Dietz: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: If you look at these two documents that are marked as 223, is there any way to determine the time of day on February 5th that these tickets were requested?
Andrew Dietz: Requested?
Mr. Sanger: Yes.
Andrew Dietz: No. Prior to 11:31.
Mr. Sanger: You know it's prior to 11:31, because that's when the fax first was attempted, the fax that didn't work, correct?
Andrew Dietz: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And ordinarily, your people would be pretty prompt if they were setting up a ticket for the same day. And I believe this is a ticket for the same day, right? You can take a look at your --
Andrew Dietz: Yes, it looks like that way. Yes, for a flight at two o'clock in the afternoon.
Mr. Sanger: The flight was to depart at two o'clock in the afternoon of February the 5th?
Andrew Dietz: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: So if somebody were doing this and faxing it out at 11:51 in the morning, they probably had made the arrangements very shortly before that; is that correct?
Andrew Dietz: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, the fact that on the top of -- you keep looking at what you're looking at there.
Andrew Dietz: They didn't necessarily make the reservation at the time they called it in. I mean, on this day. They could have -- they could have made the reservation prior to this date.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Andrew Dietz: If that's the question.
Mr. Sanger: Well, that's fair enough. You look -- well, you're looking at your copy there. You're on the first page?
Andrew Dietz: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sanger: And at the top -- at the top there, it says, “To MJJ Productions”, and “Attention: Evvy, Personal and Confidential”?
Andrew Dietz: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sanger: Does that mean that Evvy was actually the person that called this in?
Andrew Dietz: Not necessarily.
Mr. Sanger: Somebody could have called it in and then you would be dealing with Evvy Tavasci at MJJ Productions, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: So, in essence, from the records that you have before you, you do not have any idea who called in this request for tickets?
Andrew Dietz: Let me clarify. Most of the tickets, to my knowledge, were ordered or confirmed by Evvy.
Mr. Sanger: I understand.
Andrew Dietz: Some of them were called in by other employees of MJJ Productions.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Andrew Dietz: But nothing was done without, typically, getting Evvy's authorization.
Mr. Sanger: So theoretically, before this flight -- before the tickets would actually issue on this flight, you would need to have Evvy's confirmation, correct?
Andrew Dietz: Typically, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Maybe Narcisse, who also worked there, correct?
Andrew Dietz: I'm not sure if Narcisse is on the -- she definitely is calling some things in. I'm not sure if she's a part of the approval process.
Mr. Sanger: But going back to my question originally, here, you cannot tell who actually called this in. In other words, somebody else -- somebody else entirely different could have called it in?
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object. Calls for speculation, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled.
Andrew Dietz: I cannot tell who called this in.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And then if you look at the air fare there, that's economy air fare, $1,180.50 per person, right?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Does that tend to indicate to you that this was a flight that was scheduled at the last minute?
Andrew Dietz: I -- I can't speculate on that. I think it was -- I mean, my gut feeling is yes, but --
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Andrew Dietz: I don't know if it was called in last minute.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I'm going to take that down for a moment.
Andrew Dietz: You know, it might have been contemporaneously, only because ticket fares are good for only, you know, for a 24-hour period per se. So the fare is only good for -- for a certain time frame, and then it will move on. So --
Mr. Sanger: Now, you testified to some other documents as to who might have been -- I'm sorry, you testified to other documents as to whose names were on particular tickets or potential tickets. You do not actually know who flew on a particular day; is that correct?
Andrew Dietz: I do not.
Mr. Sanger: And, of course, if you -- if somebody booked flights independent of your agency, you would not know about those flights; is that correct?
Andrew Dietz: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I have no further questions. And I have the exhibits that were handed to me. I'm just going to leave them here.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Mr. Dietz, are you familiar with the regulations that were put in place as a result of 9/11?
Andrew Dietz: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And given the regulations that are in place as a result of 9/11, in your opinion, based upon your experience in the travel industry, that another person cannot travel on a ticket -- that a person cannot travel on a ticket not issued to them without proof of identification?
Andrew Dietz: That's my understanding.
Mr. Sneddon: Nothing further.
Mr. Sanger: No further questions.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down.
Mr. Nicola: People call Jeff Schwartz, Your Honor.
The Court: Come forward, please. When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing.
Bailiff Cortez: Right here, sir. Stand up there. Face the clerk.
The Court: Face the clerk and raise your right hand. She's right here.
Message: JEFFREY SCHWARTZ Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Jeffrey Schwartz: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Jeffrey Schwartz: Jeffrey Schwartz. J-e-f-f-r-e-y, S-c-h-w-a-r-t-z.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. NICOLA:
Mr. Nicola: Good afternoon, sir.
Jeffrey Schwartz: Good afternoon.
Mr. Nicola: Would you tell the jury, please, who you're employed with?
Jeffrey Schwartz: My employer is Talk America.
Mr. Nicola: And what is Talk America?
Jeffrey Schwartz: We're a C-lite local and long-distance Internet telephone provider.
Mr. Nicola: Are you here to testify today as their custodian of records?
Jeffrey Schwartz: I am.
Mr. Nicola: May I approach the witness, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: I've placed in front of you Exhibit 458, and I ask you if you recognize that document, and if you do, what is it, please?
Jeffrey Schwartz: I do. It's subscriber information from a customer of Talk America, Jay Jackson.
Mr. Nicola: And does that Exhibit 458 also contain toll records for the period of January, February and March of the year 2003?
Jeffrey Schwartz: It does.
Mr. Nicola: Is the information contained within that exhibit material that is generated within the regular course and scope of the business of Talk America?
Jeffrey Schwartz: It is.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. And is the material that is in there, the information that is in that exhibit, collected at or near the time of the individual toll calls?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes, it is.
Mr. Nicola: And is it relied upon to conduct the business of Talk America?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes, it is.
Mr. Nicola: Your Honor, we would offer 458 into evidence at this time.
Mr. Sanger: I just have a technical question. There's a different 458 that we were provided. Has that been withdrawn or --
Mr. Nicola: That was never identified.
Mr. Sanger: Never provided to the Court?
Mr. Nicola: No.
Mr. Sanger: Oh, okay. I'm just now informed by counsel that what was provided to us was not provided to the Court or marked. So....
Mr. Nicola: We used a different exhibit number for this.
Mr. Sanger: So based on that, I have no objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Nicola: Thank you, Your Honor. May I please have “Input No. 4”, Your Honor?
Mr. Nicola: Mr. Schwartz, I would just like to go to the first page of the toll records of that exhibit. I'm going to project a few items up onto the screen, and if you could please explain them to the jury once they're up there, okay?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Okay.
Mr. Nicola: Let's begin with the headings in the columns entitled A, B, C, D, et cetera. And I'm just going to point with the laser. If you can speak next to that second mike, please, it would be more convenient for you, and everyone will be able to hear you. Could you tell the jury what's in this section, the first line, Section A, please?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's a number where the call would originate from.
Mr. Nicola: Is that the number that corresponds to the subscriber?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes, it does.
Mr. Nicola: The customer?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes, that's correct.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. And is that a mobile phone number or is that a landline?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's a landline.
Mr. Nicola: Do you provide local service for that, or did you during the time period in question?
Jeffrey Schwartz: We did not.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. What kind of service did you provide to that particular landline?
Jeffrey Schwartz: We provided LD service only.
Mr. Nicola: And LD, for those of us who don't know?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Long distance.
Mr. Nicola: Long-distance service. What's in Column B?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Column B is where the call would have terminated.
Mr. Nicola: What does that mean?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That means where the receiver would have been picked up on the other end.
Mr. Nicola: The number that was dialed by the person at the 9279 number?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's correct.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Column C, is that the date of the call?
Jeffrey Schwartz: The date and the time.
Mr. Nicola: Do you know whether the time stamp is based on a particular time zone?
Jeffrey Schwartz: It is on the time zone where the call originated from.
Mr. Nicola: So if the phone number is registered in Los Angeles, it's going to be in Pacific Coast time, correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Correct.
Mr. Nicola: The next column seems to indicate a place.
Jeffrey Schwartz: That is the origination column date.
Mr. Nicola: Okay.
Jeffrey Schwartz: That is the origination which corresponds to the Column A.
Mr. Nicola: Column E appears to be the state, obviously, correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Correct.
Mr. Nicola: Correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Correct, I'm sorry.
Mr. Nicola: And of course there's Column H and Column I. What is Column H, please?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Column H is actually the duration of the call, from the time the call is received until the call was terminated.
Mr. Nicola: So that's the actual time that the call lasted?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Correct.
Mr. Nicola: And what is this over here, Column I?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That would be the time that the call was billed for.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. For example, in this column, H, on the second line, a 34-second call results in one minute worth of billing?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Correct. That is correct. Common practice in the telecommunications industry.
Mr. Nicola: We've heard that, yes. I'd like to direct your attention, please, to the middle of this chart, if I may. Beginning with the entry on line 25 --
Jeffrey Schwartz: Okay.
Mr. Nicola: -- this would be the calling number, Mr. Jackson, correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That would be the origination of the call for Mr. Jackson, correct.
Mr. Nicola: And this number here, (201) 213-0763, is the number that was placed -- or dialed by whoever was using this phone?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Placed and terminated at that number, correct.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. And does this call on Item No. 24 -- excuse me, Item No. 25 indicate the call was a completed call?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: How can you tell that?
Jeffrey Schwartz: By the duration of the call.
Mr. Nicola: Over here, the 6:32?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's correct.
Mr. Nicola: Which on the bill appears to be what, seven minutes?
Jeffrey Schwartz: What line are we looking at? 25?
Mr. Nicola: Yes, right where the pointer is.
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's correct. Well, six minutes and 32 seconds. Billed for seven minutes.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. And that's how Cingular bought AT&T. Okay. Here we go. Line No. 27, same number, to Morristown, New Jersey?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Correct.
Mr. Nicola: And that call lasted 15 seconds, correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Correct.
Mr. Nicola: Now, is that a completed call, if it lasts 15.3 seconds?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes. Any call -- I'm sorry.
Mr. Nicola: Explain that, please.
Jeffrey Schwartz: Well, any call that is entered into the record, if the call was not answered, if there was not an answer on the telephone, there wouldn't be a record for the call because the call would not have terminated. But once the call is received and answered, regardless of one second or 20 seconds, or as far as ten minutes, there would be a record of the call.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. So does that mean that this call was either answered on the other end or it got forwarded to voice mail or something like that?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Any one of those possibilities is possible, correct.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. And this 15 seconds also costs a minute, right?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That is correct also.
Mr. Nicola: Going down the list to Item No. 28 on the left, same number was dialed to Morristown, New Jersey, at 11:53?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's correct.
Mr. Nicola: Is this military time?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: So the next call down here at 1320 hours, that's actually 1:20 p.m., correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's also correct.
Mr. Nicola: And the 1:20 p.m. call lasted one minute and eight seconds?
Jeffrey Schwartz: And billed for two minutes, if that's what you're asking, yes. Yes, it did.
Mr. Nicola: This is my favorite one right here. The next call appears to be the same number, is that correct, on line 30?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes. That's correct.
Mr. Nicola: And that call was placed at 1324, 1:24 in the afternoon, correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes, that's correct.
Mr. Nicola: To Morristown, New Jersey, for a period of 2.4 seconds?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's correct.
Mr. Nicola: Immediately thereafter, at 1334 hours, that number was called again, correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's correct.
Mr. Nicola: And that call lasted 3.1 seconds?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's also correct.
Mr. Nicola: And in total, that was two minutes, in telephone company time, right?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's also correct, yes.
Mr. Nicola: You can tell I enjoy this, huh? The remainder of these calls, at 1539 hours, Item 32, Item 33 at 1407 hours, Item 34 at 2036 hours, Item 35 at 2043, and Item 36 at 2048, were all to the same phone number in Morristown, New Jersey, right?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That is correct.
Mr. Nicola: And they were all completed calls?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That is correct also.
Mr. Nicola: Now, I believe I misspoke and called 1359 1539. So Item 32 is actually a call placed at 1359 or nearly two o'clock in the afternoon, right?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's correct.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Now, beginning with Item 36 -- 37, excuse me, on February 16th, 2003, at 4:07 in the afternoon, was a call placed to a phone number in Wyckoff, New Jersey?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's correct.
Mr. Nicola: And what does your record reflect that phone number to be?
Jeffrey Schwartz: (201) 847-7576.
Mr. Nicola: Now, you have no way of knowing whether the receiving phone call -- excuse me, the number dialed is a cellular phone or a landline, correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: You could gather the information. I do not know. You could gather the information if you had to gather it. You could do that.
Mr. Nicola: By some kind of a cell site?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Or a customer service record. You could request what we call a “CSR”, which would be a Customer Service Record, for the receiving call.
Mr. Nicola: How long are those records kept?
Jeffrey Schwartz: I believe a record should be kept for eight years, is what a telephone record is required to be kept, so --
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Would the subscriber information on this end of the phone call also tell you whether it's a cell phone or a landline?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes, it could.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Now, beginning with Item 37, and continuing down to Item 41, there appear to be four -- four calls in a row between four o'clock in the afternoon and approximately 10:23 the following day, February 17th, to the same number in Wyckoff, New Jersey; is that correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's correct.
Mr. Nicola: And were those completed calls?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes, they were.
Mr. Nicola: Proceeding to Item 42, was a different number called on February 17th of 2003 at 11:24 in the morning?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes. Different between 41 and 42 is what your -- is the question?
Mr. Nicola: Yes.
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes, different.
Mr. Nicola: Is that the same phone number that was called on the 15th to Morristown, New Jersey?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes, it is.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. And was that a completed phone call?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: And how long did that one last?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Item 42?
Mr. Nicola: Yes, please.
Jeffrey Schwartz: It looks like 17 minutes and 39 seconds, billed for 18 minutes probably.
Mr. Nicola: There you go. Okay. And the item right below 42 is 43.
Jeffrey Schwartz: Right.
Mr. Nicola: Could you tell us about that phone call including the location and duration, please?
Jeffrey Schwartz: It looks like it was 26 minutes and 15 seconds to Wyckoff, New Jersey. The (201) 847-7576 number.
Mr. Nicola: Would you turn the page, please? Okay. I'm trying to get this up there. How about we just do it verbally. Items 45 through 48 -- excuse me, 45 through 47, are they all telephone calls placed from the Jackson residence, Jay Jackson residence, to the 7576 telephone number in Wyckoff, New Jersey?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes, they are.
Mr. Nicola: And were they all completed phone calls?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes, they were.
Mr. Nicola: And did they occur between February 18th of 2003 and February 19th of 2003?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes, they did.
Mr. Nicola: Your Honor, I have no further questions of this witness.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Mr. Schwartz, how are you?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Pretty well.
Mr. Sanger: Good. I think you need to kind of list more towards that microphone, if you could.
Jeffrey Schwartz: This one?
Mr. Sanger: Yes, please. The phone records that you just testified to are in the name of Jay Jackson; is that correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes, that's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And there's a billing address in Los Angeles; is that correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Is this a land-based landline phone or is this a mobile phone?
Jeffrey Schwartz: It's a land-based phone.
Mr. Sanger: Is it your understanding this is a residence phone?
Jeffrey Schwartz: It is. Our company only provides LD service to residence phones. We don't provide any type of cellular service.
Mr. Sanger: So this particular phone number -- let me see if I can put one of these up here. Your Honor, with the Court's permission, I'll put up page -- I guess it's really just page one. I'll put up my copy of page one and see if this looks like your copy of page one of Exhibit 458.
Jeffrey Schwartz: That is.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So you can look at yours, because it's a little hard to read.
Jeffrey Schwartz: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: But look up here first just so you can see what I'm pointing at. I'm going to point on the screen at a phone number up there. Is that the phone number that is associated with this account?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: And the account is for Jay Jackson, correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Now, I'm going to ask you to tell us what the -- well, let me ask -- Your Honor, I need to ask for the actual phone number. It's up there. Is that all right if I do that? I don't want to --
The Court: Yes. It was the other information that we were concerned about, the Social Security numbers, that kind of thing.
Mr. Sanger: That's fine. Thank you. I just want to make sure.
Mr. Sanger: Can you read that phone number from the exhibit?
Jeffrey Schwartz: From your exhibit or my exhibit?
Mr. Sanger: You have the official exhibit. I'm putting up a copy.
Jeffrey Schwartz: All right. Yes, I can.
Mr. Sanger: Please read it.
Jeffrey Schwartz: (213) 739-9279.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, your phone company provided service, provided long-distance service to that number; is that correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Does that mean anytime that the phone was picked up and a call was made on that telephone number ending in 9279, anytime the phone was picked up and a long-distance call was made, it would be automatically billed to your carrier?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Is there a way to bill it to some other carrier?
Jeffrey Schwartz: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So I'm going to put up page two with the Court's permission. And if you can look in the book there so you can actually read it. But I'll also help you to stay closer to the microphone, because we have that microphone issue here. These records start when?
Jeffrey Schwartz: On page one is what we're talking about?
Mr. Sanger: Yeah. I mean the records you just --
Jeffrey Schwartz: January 1 of .03.
Mr. Sanger: January 1 of .03. And these appear to be the comprehensive records for that period of time; is that correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: They are, correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, do you know what carrier this customer, Jay Jackson, had for his regular telephone services?
Jeffrey Schwartz: It would -- probably -- I don't know specifically. It would probably be Pac-Bell.
Mr. Sanger: Pac-Bell. Okay. So if we had seen, for instance, on February 4th a Pac-Bell record showing a call from this number to Reseda, two calls to Reseda on February 4th, they were logged in on the Pac-Bell statement, those calls would not necessarily show up here; is that right?
Jeffrey Schwartz: I'm not sure I understand your question.
Mr. Sanger: Well, let's do it this way. I'll just ask you to look at yours, because I can't read mine from the thing there. If you look at the entries -- I'm going to put that page back up again, Your Honor, if I may. Now that I've seen it, I'll do it this way here. I'll just try to look at the particular entries here. If you look at the entries for -- starting at the top, it starts with 1-1-03, correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And it goes through the month of January. There is a total of 11 calls through January, correct? Well, no, I'm sorry, there's a total of nine calls. It starts on line 3 and goes to line 11, correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Right.
Mr. Sanger: And --
Jeffrey Schwartz: 1-20-03 would be the last call in January.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And then as far as your carrier is concerned, the next charge you have is on 2-4-03, correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: To Newport News, Virginia.
Mr. Sanger: That is a call to Newport News, Virginia.
Jeffrey Schwartz: Talking about line 12, correct?
Mr. Sanger: Line 12, correct.
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then on 2-5-03, there's a call to Naples, I suppose.
Jeffrey Schwartz: I'm sorry. Yeah. Naples, Florida, correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, I'm going to show you Exhibit 451, and I'm going to have to ask the clerk for that, if I may, please. Should be a book. May I inquire of the government to see if they have that book there, by any chance? We're looking for an Exhibit 451, which is the Pac-Bell records. You don't have it there at the counsel table is what I was inquiring.
Mr. Nicola: I don't. It was released for us to redact per the Court's instruction. I didn't bring it down with me.
The Court: She couldn't hear what you said.
Mr. Nicola: I'm sorry, Your Honor. I took that per the Court's instructions to redact. I haven't brought it back.
The Court: Try to blame it on me, will you? (Laughter.)
The Court: That's the book you have.
Mr. Nicola: Yes. It's one of several.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. May I confer with counsel, see if we can find a way around this?
The Court: Yes. (Discussion held off the record at counsel table.)
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, with the stipulation of counsel, we'll use my copy and the one that was provided to me of 451, Tab 6. It's already been received into evidence. And that's what we'll use in a second, if I may.
The Court: All right. Good.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Mr. Schwartz, let me ask you, how long have you worked in the phone business?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Nine years.
Mr. Sanger: And are you familiar with phone billing records in general?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes, I am.
Mr. Sanger: And how many companies have you worked for in that period of time?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Just one.
Mr. Sanger: Which one is that?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Talk America.
Mr. Sanger: Has Talk America been in existence all that time?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes, that's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Oh, okay. All right. I'm going to show you a phone record that has been admitted into evidence, which is 451, Tab 6, and it's page three of Tab 6. And this was -- I think I can say for your benefit, to orient you, this was provided by a Pac-Bell representative. And I'll put that up if I may, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, this is -- I'll let you take a look at that for a second and see if you can orient yourself and get a feel for that. That is --
Jeffrey Schwartz: It looks like a phone bill.
Mr. Sanger: There you go. All right. And if you look in the upper left-hand corner, the indication is that this phone bill pertains to this phone number, (213) 739-9279.
Jeffrey Schwartz: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: See that? Is that the phone number that's referred to on your Exhibit 458, the Talk America exhibit that's in front of you?
Jeffrey Schwartz: It is.
Mr. Sanger: I think you have to lean into the microphone.
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: Oh, that one works, too. All right. Okay. And I guess what I was referring to is there are a couple of entries here for February the 4th at 6:11 p.m. and then 6:14 p.m., both four-minute calls to a number apparently in Reseda, an (818) number. And my question to you is, assuming this is the same telephone, why would there be two calls billed to Pacific Bell on that date and another long-distance call to - where did we say? - Newport News billed to Talk America on the same date?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Why would there be?
Mr. Sanger: Yeah.
Jeffrey Schwartz: So you're asking why a long-distance call would show up on a local phone bill?
Mr. Sanger: Yes.
Jeffrey Schwartz: I'm not familiar with the geography of California, but Reseda may be within the latta, and it may not reflect as a long-distance call.
Mr. Sanger: Could you turn around and talk into the mike there, please. You said -- I think everybody heard, but you said “within the latta”?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And what is a latta? I'm afraid to ask.
Jeffrey Schwartz: For lack -- I guess to -- a layman term would be an area code or a geographic area in which the phone call would be billed in, so -- do you want me to explain it or --
Mr. Sanger: Go ahead.
Jeffrey Schwartz: A latta is the area where the phone call -- you'd be charged different rates when you went across a latta. And once you cross a latta, it would be considered a long-distance call.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So your local phone bill might have a call that crosses a latta but does not invoke your carrier's business?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So if I then put 458 back up, and this is page two, the calls that we've just referred to there are not inconsistent with your carrier providing service during that same period of time; is that right?
Jeffrey Schwartz: No.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you. I just have a couple of more questions here. And let me look at this first. Yes, all right. I'm going to put this up and we'll again try to orient ourselves. Okay. You're welcome to look at the actual exhibit in front of you, but I'm going to refer to Line 17, 18, and 19 from February the 11th, 2003. Do you see those?
Jeffrey Schwartz: I do.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And your bill would reflect only outgoing calls, I suppose, unless somebody called collect, correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Outgoing only, that's correct.
Mr. Sanger: So it appears on February the 11th, 2003, there were three outgoing calls to Santa Barbara; is that correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And those three calls were at 2322 hours, which would be 22 minutes after eleven o'clock at night, correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And the next -- that's to one number. And then the other two calls are to the same number. I didn't say that correctly. The first call is to a -- one number. And the second two calls are to the same number?
Jeffrey Schwartz: The first one's to 2300, and the second two are 2724.
Mr. Sanger: And the second two were placed at 11:23 at night and 11:49 at night, correct?
Jeffrey Schwartz: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Let me have just one more second, if I may, Your Honor, please. All right. I have no further questions.
Mr. Nicola: No questions, Your Honor. See you “latta”.
The Court: Call your next witness.
Mr. Nicola: Crystalee Danko.
Message: CRYSTALEE DANKO Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Crystalee Danko: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Crystalee Danko: Crystalee Danko. C-r-y-s-t-a-l-e-e; Danko, D-a-n-k-o.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. NICOLA:
Mr. Nicola: Good afternoon, Miss Danko.
Crystalee Danko: Good afternoon.
Mr. Nicola: I've placed in front of you Exhibit 454, correct?
Crystalee Danko: That's correct.
Mr. Nicola: Do you recognize that exhibit?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, I do.
Mr. Nicola: Have you had an opportunity to review it and its contents before you came to court today?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, I have.
Mr. Nicola: Can you tell the jury, please, what exhibit four fifty --
Crystalee Danko: Five.
Mr. Nicola: -- five is? Excuse me.
Crystalee Danko: Yes, these are Sprint cell phone records and landline records, including subscriber information and billing information.
Mr. Nicola: And are the contents of Exhibit 455 those which are regularly made in the course of your business?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, they are.
Mr. Nicola: Would you open up Exhibit 455 in the index, please?
Crystalee Danko: Yes. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Just want to make sure we're all on the same page.
Mr. Nicola: With respect to Exhibit 455, did you compare the contents of the table of contents with the information contained in the corresponding tabs within the binder?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, I have.
Mr. Nicola: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: We're not on the same page. We're not on the same page, I'm sorry. There is no -- there's no -- there's no table of contents on this one.
Mr. Nicola: You can use mine.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you. Let's see what you did here.
Mr. Nicola: You ready?
Mr. Sanger: Excuse me just one second.
Mr. Nicola: I'm sorry.
Crystalee Danko: That's okay.
Mr. Nicola: With respect to the information contained in Tab No. 1, is that subscriber information for a firm listed in the table of contents?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, it is.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. And are there telephone numbers that your records show connected with that firm?
Crystalee Danko: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: And are they also on the table of contents?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, they are.
Mr. Nicola: Would you read those telephone numbers into the record, please?
Crystalee Danko: (702) 362-5118; (702) 222-2500; (702) 365-6940.
Mr. Nicola: If you would turn to Tab 1 of your exhibit, and does the first page of the exhibit list the same name that is under “Subscriber Name” in the table of contents?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, it does.
Mr. Nicola: If you would turn to page two. And what is page two?
Crystalee Danko: It is listing information, listing address and names for the information on the front page.
Mr. Nicola: Do those names correspond to the 222-2500 number?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, they do.
Mr. Nicola: And is one of those names a David LeGrand?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, it is.
Mr. Nicola: Would you please turn the page and go to the page marked 3 of 11. Are you there?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, I am.
Mr. Nicola: And on page 3 of 11 of what appears to be a February 21, 2003, phone bill, is there a list of telephone numbers which include the 362-5118 and 365-6940 numbers listed in the table of contents?
Crystalee Danko: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. And do all those telephone numbers belong to the firm of Hale Lane Peek Dennison and Howard?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, they do.
Mr. Nicola: If you would turn to Tab 2, please. Now, does Tab 2 contain the subscriber information for a business entitled, “Geragos & Geragos”?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, it does.
Mr. Nicola: And is there a telephone number on the table of contents which corresponds to the number you have on record for Geragos & Geragos?
Crystalee Danko: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: And what is that number?
Crystalee Danko: (213) 864-2100.
Mr. Nicola: If you would turn to page two, the second page, do you find an additional number for the business “Geragos & Geragos”?
Crystalee Danko: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: And what is that number?
Crystalee Danko: (213) 625-3900.
Mr. Nicola: Turning to Tab No. 3, does Tab No. 3 contain subscriber and billing information for one Vincent Amen?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, it does.
Mr. Nicola: Is there a cellular number associated with Mr. Amen in your subscriber records?
Crystalee Danko: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: And what is that number, please?
Crystalee Danko: (201) 838-4345.
Mr. Nicola: If you would turn, please, to Exhibit No. -- excuse me, Tab 4 in Exhibit 455. Do you have in Tab 4 the subscriber information for one Frederic Marc Schaffel?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, I do.
Mr. Nicola: And do the numbers in the table of contents correspond to the subscriber information in your Sprint records?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, it does.
Mr. Nicola: Is there an additional telephone number in your subscriber information for Mr. Schaffel that is not on the table of contents? If you would look at page one.
Crystalee Danko: Yes, there is.
Mr. Nicola: And what is that number?
Crystalee Danko: (818) 876-0029.
Mr. Nicola: And can you tell if that is a cellular number or a landline?
Crystalee Danko: I cannot tell by these records.
Mr. Nicola: If you would turn briefly to Exhibit No. 5. Does Exhibit 5 contain the subscriber information for a Maria Farshchian?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, it does.
Mr. Nicola: F-a-r-s-h-c-h-i-a-n?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, it does.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. And does the Tab No. 5 also contain the toll records -- excuse me, the billing for the period of January, February and March of 2003?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, it does.
Mr. Nicola: Are the records contained within Exhibit 455 records which Sprint regularly relies upon in the normal course and scope of their business?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, they are.
Mr. Nicola: Your Honor, we would offer 455 into evidence at this time, please.
Mr. Sanger: On these, we have the objection of relevance as to, in particular, some of the subscribers. It's the same objection that I made previously, that there's no foundation to show relevance. And I think the Court --
The Court: I'll admit them, subject, as I did the others, to the District Attorney tying up the relevance.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Mr. Nicola: Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, may I publish?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: Mrs. Danko? It's Missus?
Crystalee Danko: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: If you would please turn to the billing information for Fred Schaffel and find the page that corresponds to February 7th of 2003, please.
Crystalee Danko: Okay.
Mr. Nicola: Have you found it?
Crystalee Danko: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Does the billing for February 7th of 2003 begin on page eight of the February 21 bill?
Crystalee Danko: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. I'd like to talk to you about a code on your bills which is denoted as “CW”.
Crystalee Danko: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. On line -- excuse me. On Line No. 194, there's a “CW” next to the date and time stamp of 10:17 a.m., entitled “Incoming”. Can you explain to us how an incoming call -- what an incoming call on your system means, call waiting?
Crystalee Danko: Yes. Our subscriber was on the phone. Either he had received an incoming call or he had made an outgoing call. Either way, he was on a phone call. And during that phone call, he received another call. And when he received that second call, he answered it. And that's what indicates here, an incoming call. And a “CW” over there is what indicates the call waiting was used.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Now, after he received, he or she --
Crystalee Danko: Or she.
Mr. Nicola: After the call came in at 10:17 a.m., can you tell whether or not your subscriber stayed on the phone with the call immediately preceding?
Crystalee Danko: For one minute or less.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. How can you tell that?
Crystalee Danko: Our corporation bills in one-minute increments, and one minute is listed here next to the call waiting indicator.
Mr. Nicola: So this could have actually been a 2.4-second call?
Crystalee Danko: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: My question, however, is, if the caller was on the phone to this number at 10:16 a.m., and it lasted for six minutes, did this call actually interrupt this call?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, it does.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. So the Entry 193, did that continue after the entry on 194?
Crystalee Danko: Yes, it did.
Mr. Nicola: If you could please turn to page nine, and I'd like you to begin at line 215. I'll project that. There appears to be the same call -- excuse me, the same code here a number of times. “CW” and “CW”?
Crystalee Danko: That's correct.
Mr. Nicola: There's also this code right here, what does that mean, the “3W”?
Crystalee Danko: The “3W” indicates that a three-way call was initiated.
Mr. Nicola: And how does that work on your system?
Crystalee Danko: You would need to be on the phone call in the first place, just like the call waiting situation. In this situation, if you look at 2-7 at 3:13 p.m., there was an outgoing call. Our subscriber had made an outgoing call and was on the phone for approximately 14 minutes. During that time frame, at 3:22, our subscriber called out and conferenced in another number.
Mr. Nicola: Let me stop you for a minute. Where are you? Which line item?
Crystalee Danko: I'm on line 230.
Mr. Nicola: Would you look at line --
Crystalee Danko: Sorry.
Mr. Nicola: -- 218?
Crystalee Danko: That's kind of hard for you to see. How about line 217?
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Explain how that came about.
Crystalee Danko: Our customer had received a call, an incoming call, at 3 -- at 1:13 p.m., and that lasted for seven minutes. During that call, they made a call out, three-waying into the (702) 222-2520 number.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Would you expect, in a three-way call, that when the user of Mr. Schaffel's phone dialed the 222-2520 number, that would show as an incoming call on their system, if they record such things?
Crystalee Danko: The receiver?
Mr. Nicola: Yes.
Crystalee Danko: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. I think I have no further questions. Thank you.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Sanger: No questions, Your Honor.
The Court: Good. You may step down.
Crystalee Danko: Thank you.
The Court: Next witness.
Mr. Nicola: Our next witness is Ms. Jennifer Simmons.
Message: JENNIFER SIMMONS Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Jennifer Simmons: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Jennifer Simmons: Jennifer Simmons. J-e-n-n-i-f-e-r, S-i-m-m-o-n-s.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. NICOLA:
Mr. Nicola: Good afternoon, Miss Simmons. I'd like to hand you Exhibit No. 450, and ask if you recognize that, please.
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: What is it?
Jennifer Simmons: It's records of Nextel statements from Tavasci, Evvy; MJJ Productions.
Mr. Nicola: These are records of Nextel Phone Company?
Jennifer Simmons: Correct.
Mr. Nicola: Do you work for them?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes, I do.
Mr. Nicola: For how long?
Jennifer Simmons: Six years.
Mr. Nicola: And are you here today as their custodian of records?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: He's going to adjust your microphone.
Jennifer Simmons: Oh.
Mr. Nicola: Are you familiar with the contents of Exhibit 450?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: And is there a three-page table of contents?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: Have you gone through the subscriber information, the corresponding telephone numbers that are listed out in that table of contents?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: And have you confirmed the accuracy of the entries on the table of contents?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: With respect to Tab No. 1, does that contain account statements for the telephone numbers (310) 901-7487 and (818) 402-7087 for the billing period of February of 2003?
Jennifer Simmons: Could you repeat the second number? The first one was correct.
Mr. Nicola: (818) --
Jennifer Simmons: Uh-huh.
Mr. Nicola: -- 402-7087?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. I have the same question about those two phone numbers in Tab No. 2, and I ask if the contents of Tab No. 2 are the billing statements for the month of March for those two numbers?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: And the same question with respect to those telephone numbers and the April billing statement. Are those contained within Tab No. 3?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: Is the bill address under Tab No. 1, 2 and 3 - you can look at Tab 1 first - Evelyn Tavasci --
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: -- MJJ Productions, P.O. Box 6034, Sherman Oaks, California?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: Is that the same on exhibits -- excuse me, the bills on Tabs 1, 2 and 3?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes, they are.
Mr. Nicola: With respect to Tab No. 4, can you describe what is in that exhibit, please?
Jennifer Simmons: This is a subscriber history, a description of each unit. It will show the unit's phone number; the user name of that unit that's listed in our bill; the radio I.D.; an IMSI I.D., which is for our network to identify each unit for billing purposes; a serial number, which is a SIM identification, which tells what piece of equipment it is, as well as the effective date of the activation, and if there was an expiration, meaning a cancellation of that unit, if it cancelled. It also includes the account number for the bill, the billing name, and the billing address.
Mr. Nicola: Are there a number of phones -- excuse me, phone numbers registered to an Evelyn Tavasci --
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: -- that are listed in the table of contents under Tab No. 4?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: Did you confirm that each one of those telephone numbers corresponds to the information in Tab No. 4?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: And with respect to the billing information, do all the bills appear to go to the address at P.O. Box 6034 --
Jennifer Simmons: Yes, they do.
Mr. Nicola: -- Sherman Oaks, California? Are some entitled, “Ms. Evelyn Tavasci, Attention: MJJ Productions”?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: And some are not, correct?
Jennifer Simmons: Correct.
Mr. Nicola: But they're all going to the P.O. Box at 6034?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: I'd like you to turn, please, to Tab No. 5.
Jennifer Simmons: Actually, there is no Tab No. 5 in this one.
Mr. Nicola: Oh, I'm sorry.
Jennifer Simmons: That's all right.
Mr. Nicola: It's actually Tab No. 7. Does Tab No. 7 contain four additional phones registered to an Evelyn Tavasci?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: And are those phone numbers accurately printed on the table of contents on Exhibit 450?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: Are the billing statements attached for the February billing cycle of the year 2003?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. With respect to the final two tabs, No. 8 and No. 9, are the numbers listed in the table of contents and registered to an Evelyn Tavasci contained within the Tabs 8 and 9 for the months of March and April of 2003?
Jennifer Simmons: For 8 and 9, yes.
Mr. Nicola: And you confirmed both of those --
Jennifer Simmons: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: -- sections before you came to court?
Jennifer Simmons: Uh-huh.
Mr. Nicola: Now, with respect to the contents of Exhibit 450, are these all records which record the information contained at or near the time of each of the events recorded?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Nicola: Nextel is just a wireless company, correct?
Jennifer Simmons: Correct.
Mr. Nicola: And none of these telephones are landlines?
Jennifer Simmons: Right, they are all wireless.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. And does Nextel rely on the information contained within Exhibit 450 in the regular course of their business?
Jennifer Simmons: Yes, they do.
Mr. Nicola: We would offer Exhibit 450 into evidence.
Mr. Sanger: I have the same objection.
The Court: All right. They're admitted, subject to connection later.
Mr. Nicola: Thank you, Your Honor. I have no further questions.
Mr. Sanger: I have no questions, Your Honor.
The Court: Thank you. Call your next witness.
Mr. Nicola: It's going to be Joe Corral.
Message: JOE J. CORRAL, JR. Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Joe Corral: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Joe Corral: Joe J. Corral, Jr., C-o-r-r-a-l.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. NICOLA:
Mr. Nicola: Good afternoon, Mr. Corral.
Joe Corral: Afternoon.
Mr. Nicola: I'd like to show you Exhibit 457 and Exhibit 459, please. Do you recognize Exhibit 457?
Joe Corral: Yes, I do.
Mr. Nicola: And what is it, please?
Joe Corral: It's telephone records that were subpoenaed from Verizon.
Mr. Nicola: Do you work for Verizon?
Joe Corral: Yes, I do.
Mr. Nicola: For how long?
Joe Corral: Approximately 27 years.
Mr. Nicola: And are you here to testify as Verizon's custodian of records with respect to the California and I think it's New York records?
Joe Corral: Yes, I am.
Mr. Nicola: And are the New York records kept in Exhibit 459?
Joe Corral: Yes, they are.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. With respect to Exhibit 457, is there a table of contents with a number of entries corresponding to tabs in the exhibit?
Joe Corral: Yes, there is.
Mr. Nicola: Would you give us just a moment.
Mr. Sanger: Just one second, Your Honor, please.
The Court: Why don't we take our break now.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Go ahead, Counsel.
Mr. Nicola: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Nicola: Mr. Corral, we just started talking about the two exhibits in front of you. Why don't we start with the New York exhibit. Is that Exhibit 459?
Joe Corral: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: And contained within that exhibit, is there subscriber information and toll records for Franchesco Cascio?
Joe Corral: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: Does he have a billing address in New Jersey?
Joe Corral: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: Are the records contained in Exhibit 459 those kept within the normal course and scope of the business of Verizon?
Joe Corral: Yes, they are.
Mr. Nicola: And is the information contained within that exhibit gathered at or near the time of the event?
Joe Corral: Yes, they are.
Mr. Nicola: And does Verizon rely upon those records to conduct their business?
Joe Corral: Yes, we do.
Mr. Nicola: Your Honor, we would move 459 into evidence at this time.
Mr. Sanger: Same objection. I take it same ruling.
The Court: Same ruling, yeah. I'll allow it with the proviso that it's connected up later.
Mr. Nicola: If you would please turn to Exhibit 457. Are those the records for Verizon California?
Joe Corral: Yes, they are.
Mr. Nicola: And with respect to the ten numbers listed in the table of contents, are those landlines?
Joe Corral: Yes, they are.
Mr. Nicola: I didn't ask you, but is it a landline in Exhibit 459 as well?
Joe Corral: Yes, it is.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. And listed within Exhibit 457, is there a table of contents that lists five sections where the subscriber is the Neverland Ranch?
Joe Corral: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: Have you examined the exhibit and all of its contents prior to your testimony today?
Joe Corral: Yes, I have.
Mr. Nicola: And are the numbers listed for Neverland Ranch which are listed on the table of contents - those telephone numbers appear on your records contained within Tabs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 - do those numbers correspond to the information contained within those tabs?
Joe Corral: Yes, they do.
Mr. Nicola: Do your records show that the numbers listed for Neverland Ranch were active during the period of January through April of 2003 -- excuse me, through March of 2003?
Joe Corral: Yes, they do.
Mr. Nicola: So those phone lines were active during that period of time?
Joe Corral: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: If you would turn your attention, please, to the contents of Tab No. 5. Is that subscriber and billing information for one Rudy Provencio?
Joe Corral: I'm sorry? Could you repeat the question?
Mr. Nicola: Are the contents of Tab No. 5 the subscriber and billing information for Rudy Provencio?
Joe Corral: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: And is the corresponding telephone number for him (301) 473-5702?
Joe Corral: Yes, it is.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. I'm going to show you some records, if you could please turn to page 22. May I publish, Your Honor?
The Court: They're admitted, are they? Have these been --
Mr. Nicola: Oh, I'm sorry. The rest of the foundation.
Mr. Nicola: Are the contents of Exhibit 457 records which are kept within the ordinary course and scope of your business?
Joe Corral: Yes, they are.
Mr. Nicola: And are the entries recorded at or near the times of the events recorded?
Joe Corral: Yes.
Mr. Nicola: And are they records which Verizon regularly relies upon in the normal course of their business?
Joe Corral: Yes, they do.
Mr. Nicola: We'd make our proffer at this time, Your Honor.
The Court: Are you asking that they be admitted?
Mr. Nicola: May we admit 457 in evidence at this time, Your Honor?
Mr. Sanger: Same objection.
The Court: All right. Same ruling. It's admitted.
Mr. Nicola: If you could turn to Tab 4, page 22 at the bottom, if I could direct your attention to this section of the phone bill. And maybe give us a little interpretation of what all this means, this string of numbers and letters and numbers. Start right here where it says, “0204”, if you could.
Joe Corral: Yes, it's a record of billable calls, and in this case, the first call on the very top shows the date, which would be “0204”, or February 4th. The call that was made to would be Canoga Park - that's an abbreviation “CANO” - in California.
Mr. Nicola: Okay.
Joe Corral: The time right after that is in military time, which would be 2234, which would convert to 10:34 p.m.
Mr. Nicola: Okay.
Joe Corral: The numbers after that would be the number that was called, which would be (818) 876-0029.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Is there a header column at the top of this? I'll focus on that so you can see that one more clearly.
Joe Corral: Yes. It basically states calls billed to (310) 473-5702.
Mr. Nicola: And that corresponds to the subscriber's phone number, correct?
Joe Corral: Yes, it does.
Mr. Nicola: Now, this column up here that says “Date”, “Call”, et cetera, that corresponds with the numbers down this -- these columns here?
Joe Corral: Yes, they do.
Mr. Nicola: Okay. So when someone wants to read these records, if they want the phone number dialed, they go to the end of this block and count backwards to get to the area code, correct?
Joe Corral: Yes. Or, on the very top, where it says, “MPA”, which basically is the area code, that's where you can start, and in this case it's (818).
Mr. Nicola: Okay. Your Honor, I have no further questions.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, I have no questions.
The Court: Thank you. Call your next witness.
Mr. Nicola: We have no other witnesses, Judge.
The Court: Those are all the witnesses for today?
Mr. Nicola: It is.
The Court: (To Mr. Sanger) Do you want to go back and cross-examine? We've got some extra time. (Laughter.)
The Court: (To the jury) I'll see you tomorrow morning at 8:30. Counsel approach for just a moment. I want to talk to you about our schedule for a moment. (To the jury) You can go ahead. (Discussion held off the record at sidebar.)
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: All right. Let me just put this on the record. We're going on the record. The Court was just inquiring of counsel about the schedule tomorrow, and there's anticipated to be three witnesses tomorrow. Some will be outside the presence of the jury and some will be in the presence of the jury. Do you think it will be a full day tomorrow? Or what's your anticipation?
Mr. Sneddon: I anticipate it will not be, Your Honor. But from there on, it will be.
The Court: They can't hear you back there. Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: And I anticipate it will not be a full day tomorrow. I anticipate on Monday and Tuesday we will complete our case, and we will go all the way through without a break until we finish.
The Court: And then you now anticipate we'll complete the People's case Tuesday?
Mr. Sneddon: I believe, depending on cross-examination, but we will not have any more breaks. We will have all our ducks in order for those two days.
The Court: Then the Court was addressing with counsel Exhibits 809-A and 810-A, which are the transcripts for -- 809-A is the transcript for the CD tape of the phone conversation between Janet Arvizo Jackson and Frank. And 810-A is the transcript of the tape, CD, made during the Los Angeles Protective Services interview. And they were previously accepted into evidence, and the Court's pulling them from evidence and having them lodged as transcripts, which is the proper procedure when you file a transcript with the Court. Unless the parties stipulate the transcript may go to the jury, the transcript doesn't go to the jury. So we're just correcting that. The other transcripts all were lodged properly, and those were the only two that we found that were taken into evidence.
Mr. Sneddon: That's fine with us, Your Honor.
The Court: Is there anything else to take up before we recess for the day?
Mr. Sneddon: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: No, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Court's in recess.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 1:49 p.m.
