Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Friday, April 29, 2005 8:30 a.m.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: Good morning.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor.
The Court: Let's see. I understand that the District Attorney has requested the out-of-presence hearing on the foundation on the books.
Mr. Zonen: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: What exhibit number is that?
Mr. Zonen: No. 841 and 842.
The Court: All right. I did review those materials, as I had requested. I did get the materials, and I looked at those books and indicated that there must be further foundation. Are you prepared to go forward with that?
Mr. Zonen: I am, Your Honor. Foundation with regards to where seized, do you mean?
The Court: Yes. Connecting --
Mr. Zonen: Yes, we're prepared to do that at this time. We'll call Detective Rosibel Smith to the stand.
The Court: When you get to the witness stand, remain standing and face the clerk.
Message: ROSIBEL FERRUFINO SMITH Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Rosibel Smith: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Rosibel Smith: Rosibel, R-o-s-i-b-e-l; Ferrufino, F-e-r-r-u-f-i-n-o; Smith, S-m-i-t-h.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Tell us your current occupation.
Rosibel Smith: I'm a police detective for the Los Angeles Police Department currently assigned to the Threat Management Unit of the Detective Support Division.
Mr. Zonen: How long have you been a police officer for the City of Los Angeles?
Rosibel Smith: For a little over 20 years.
Mr. Zonen: And your current assignment involves what?
Rosibel Smith: Aggravated stalking cases, criminal threats of elected officials, and workplace violence incidents within the City of Los Angeles.
Mr. Zonen: Did you work also as a sex crimes prosecutor -- sex crimes detective?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: For what period of time?
Rosibel Smith: For nine years.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Which period of nine years was that?
Rosibel Smith: From 1988 to 1997.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have occasion to conduct and execute search warrants during that time?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: In August of 1993, did you participate in the execution of a search warrant at Neverland Ranch in Los Olivos, the County of Santa Barbara?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And did you seize objects from that residence during that search?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: May I approach the witness?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to show you three objects at this time. Exhibits No. 841 and 842; would you take a look at those two objects, please?
Rosibel Smith: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recognize those two books?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, I do.
Mr. Zonen: Did you seize those two books?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: From where?
Rosibel Smith: These books were seized from a cabinet within Michael Jackson's closet in the master bedroom.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Describe his bedroom for us, please.
Rosibel Smith: The bedroom is a very large --
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, I think it would be cumulative at this time, wouldn't it?
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Tell us where in his bedroom this particular closet is.
Rosibel Smith: It was off to the side of the main bedroom. There were -- actually, there were two closets on either side of the room, and this would have been the side where the Jacuzzi was located.
Mr. Zonen: Now, this is the first floor of his bedroom suite; is that right?
Rosibel Smith: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: Was there a bed in that bedroom suite?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to show you Exhibit No. 856.
Rosibel Smith: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recognize that photograph?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, I do.
Mr. Zonen: And that photograph is what?
Rosibel Smith: This is a photograph that was taken during the search warrant of Neverland Ranch, and it depicts the file cabinet that the books were seized from.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And is that file cabinet depicted in that photograph?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, it is.
Mr. Zonen: How many drawers in that file cabinet?
Rosibel Smith: Four.
Mr. Zonen: In which drawer were those two books seized, from which drawer?
Rosibel Smith: From the third drawer.
Mr. Zonen: Was that file cabinet locked?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, it was.
Mr. Zonen: How were you able to unlock it?
Rosibel Smith: We were able to get the key from -- the maid brought the key over to the home and we were able to unlock it at that time.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember which maid that was?
Rosibel Smith: I believe it was Blanca Francia.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. Is that photograph -- does that photograph accurately depict the subject matter contained within it?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, it does.
Mr. Zonen: Move to introduce 856 into evidence.
Mr. Sanger: For the purposes of?
Mr. Zonen: For the purposes of this hearing.
Mr. Sanger: For this hearing, I have no objection.
The Court: Then it's admitted for the purposes of the hearing.
Mr. Zonen: And I have no further questions as to foundation for this witness.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Mr. Sanger: May I approach the witness to take a look at the exhibits, please?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And I have no questions for the purpose of this hearing.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Zonen: I would move to introduce into evidence 841, 842 as well.
Mr. Sanger: Well, and I suppose that's the purpose of the hearing, Your Honor. We had previously objected, and -- excuse me one second. We still object on the grounds that this is remote in time. We have books from -- seized in 1993 with regard to events that allegedly occurred in 2003, so the probative value of these books is minimal at best, and it's outweighed by the confusion to the jury, prejudicial effect, and everything else. There's got to be some connection in time. It's just plain stale to bring in something from that far back and try to use it by way of not much more than innuendo at this time. These books were not shown to anybody. There's no evidence they were shown to anybody. No evidence they were shown to minors. They were locked in a cabinet.
The Court: What about the Memro case, People vs. Memro, cited by the prosecution? The only relevance I see would be to the 1108 evidence that was introduced as these books could be viewed as supportive of the other 1108 evidence. That's what I think their purpose of introducing the books is.
Mr. Sanger: Well, I think that is. I mean, I can't imagine what else it would be. That's what I'm saying. In other words, there's no evidence that these books, or any of the other books, the actual books that were seized, many of which, or all of which the Court has allowed from the 2003 time period, there's no evidence that they were shown to any of the people in this case. Not shown to minors. They weren't used for any purpose. They're just shown -- they're -- I'm sorry. They were offered to show that Mr. Jackson had these materials in his house. I think the Court's now heard all the testimony. I think it's very minimal weight even for the 2003 materials. And so my concern is that while Memro might talk about allowing this kind of evidence to show that the -- that the individual had this evidence in his possession at the time of the offense, this isn't the time of the offense. This is ten years before. And it's locked in a file cabinet. So not only do you not have it being used for any untoward purpose, but it's simply possessed and it's possessed in a secure fashion, and it's possessed ten years before any events in this case. It just seems to me that at some point the Court has to draw the line. And the Court has, of course, been drawing lines throughout this trial as to what has the kind of probative value that should come before the jury and what doesn't. And I think that, given the fact that the only materials that there's any evidence were shown or seen by minors in this case are adult heterosexual magazines that are lawful to possess by adults, the fact that they have attempted to introduce from a giant library of books any book that might have a page or two or five or ten of individuals who are not fully clothed is -- I think it's just an effort to prejudice the jury. So --
The Court: But the Memro case isn't about showing the material to anybody. It's about having the material and allowing it to be introduced as evidence that the defendant may have some proclivity to the type of sexually explicit material that we're dealing with. So it's not a question -- you know, one of the issues in this case presently is about whether he showed children that material. But another reason the material's admissible is that it relates to his state of mind. And that's why they're offering it, according to their proffer.
Mr. Sanger: Right. I understand that. And maybe I'm not being clear. But what I'm saying is, yes, there is no showing that it applies to the other purpose. So therefore, it's evidence to show that it's being offered to show that the person who possessed it has an interest in these materials. And if that's all it is, then my position is that because it's ten years old, the probative value is very, very weak.
The Court: If it's offered to show that he had that interest at the time of the 1108 allegations, that's the probative value.
Mr. Sanger: And --
The Court: And you say that's --
Mr. Sanger: And I'm saying that's very, very weak.
The Court: I just want to be sure we're seeing it the same way, and I think we are. Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Yes. And I apologize for not being more direct in answering the Court's questions. But I guess what I'm saying, at some point you have to draw the line there. In other words, this case really isn't about 1993. 1108 only allows that to come in for really a limited purpose.
The Court: True.
Mr. Sanger: And now we are embellishing the limited purpose that's already pretty remote. And as the Court acknowledged from the beginning, the real question is whether or not this kind of material is going to be so prejudicial when the jury is considering the strength of the case that was presented as to the charged events. And the strength of the case presented as to the charged events is, I submit, much weaker than it was led to -- the Court was led to believe at the time of the 1108 ruling. In other words, Your Honor had heard some of the evidence, but you hadn't heard all of the evidence. You've heard more evidence and it's gotten worse for the prosecution. Their current case is very weak. This is just an attempt to further bolster that with what is remote. And I understand the Court's theory, and -- the prosecution's theory, let's put it that way, and the Court's acknowledgement of that theory. And that's my point; it is remote. It's to bolster 1108. And 1108 is to bolster this case. It's too far afield.
The Court: Okay. I understand your argument now.
Mr. Sanger: Yes. Thank you, Your Honor.
The Court: Do you wish to respond, Mr. Zonen?
Mr. Zonen: If the Court would like, yes. Just briefly, Your Honor, the books that were seized in 1993 were seized at a time that was contemporaneous with the evidence presented pursuant to 1108. There were four young boys who were involved in Michael Jackson's life. It's interesting and unique that the maid who was called to open up this file cabinet was, in fact, the mother of one of those victims at that time. Those books -- one of the books -- both of the books are pictorial essays of adolescent boys. One of them, about 10 percent of the photographs are completely nude boys. And the other one, 90 percent of the photographs are completely nude boys. The possession of those books by Mr. Jackson, we believe, is evidence of a prurient interest in adolescent boys and it's exactly contemporaneous with the state of the evidence as to all of the 1108 witnesses. Therefore, we believe it adequately corroborates within the meaning of People vs. Memro. We'd ask that it be admitted.
The Court: All right. I want to think about this issue a little further. I'm not ready to make a decision on that.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, could I -- I know we go back and forth, and I can't really tell who started and if I get a brief rebuttal. But could I be permitted to make one remark?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you. When the Court looks at the evidence, I'd ask the Court to look at the inscription in the inside of the first book, which is “Boys Will Be Boys”. And I don't know --
The Court: Do you want to get the book for me and I'll look at it?
Mr. Sanger: Yes. I take it I may approach.
The Court: You may, yes. You may retrieve the exhibits. Bring both of them. You might as well bring both of them. Officer, I think I let you sit there a little longer because I wasn't sure that someone might want to ask you another question. But I don't think that's necessary, so you may step down.
Rosibel Smith: Thank you, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, if we're going to -- if the debate is going to go beyond the location of where the books are seized --
The Court: Cross-examination is over. The argument's not there in that area. Am I missing something?
Mr. Zonen: No. My understanding was the debate was over the location of the books.
The Court: No, no. The debate -- I said I wanted further foundation. I wanted to look at the books, and I wanted foundation. There was no debate. That was my request.
Mr. Zonen: That's fine.
The Court: Now I have what I want. I still have to make a decision.
Mr. Zonen: That's fine. That's fine.
The Court: Now, what was your reference?
Mr. Sanger: I don't know which number is which, but the one that's entitled “Boys Will Be Boys”.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Which I think is 841, but I'm not positive.
The Court: It's 841.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. On 841, if you look at that, it appears to be Mr. Jackson's own inscription, and he says, “Look at the true spirit of happiness and joy in these boys' faces. This is the spirit of boyhood, a life I never had and will always dream of. This is the life I want for my children. M.J”. The other book, which would be 842, appears to be inscribed by a female fan, and it appears to have been sent to Mr. Jackson by a fan of some sort. That's the interpretation I take from that inscription.
The Court: Well, there is an inscription, “To Michael. From your fan”.
Mr. Sanger: Yes.
The Court: “Love” -- “XXXOOO” - I was going to interpret that, but I won't - “Rhonda”. I know what I mean when I put “XXXOOO”.
Mr. Sanger: And I have noted Your Honor has never put that on any of your rulings in this case. (Laughter.)
The Court: I can't top that. All right. Then that hearing -- at this point, I'm going to take that under submission, and we'll rule on that before the People rest. And if you're about to rest and I haven't ruled it, tell me. Remind me.
Mr. Zonen: Did you mean rest the case or rest today?
The Court: Rest the case.
Mr. Zonen: All right. The witnesses are here today. Are they not going to be testifying today? If they are not, I will go ahead and excuse them.
The Court: They can't hear you.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry.
The Court: What witnesses?
Mr. Zonen: The witness who seized the book presumably would be testifying as to where and what she seized in the course of the trial before the jury.
The Court: Oh, I see. You need it for that purpose?
Mr. Zonen: Yeah. If we're not going to do that today, I'll go ahead and excuse her and have her come back.
The Court: No, we can do that today.
Mr. Zonen: We could put her to the end of the witness list.
The Court: We could put her to the end of the morning.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, there was one other matter, a motion that was filed by an attorney who represents one of the witnesses to be called today. Did the Court want to address that at this time?
The Court: Yes. That's the Drew witness?
Mr. Zonen: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: Is that witness present?
Mr. Zonen: The witness is present, out of the courtroom, and counsel is present before you.
Ms. Sager: Good morning, Your Honor. Kelli Sager on behalf of Ian Drew, a nonparty reporter.
The Court: Good morning.
Ms. Sager: We had filed a short memorandum with the Court concerning Mr. Drew's testimony largely to give the Court some guidance and background, which I understand has already come up once in this case, as to the scope of the reporter's privilege under the California Constitution and the First Amendment and the common law. Mr. Drew is being called by the prosecution, as I understand it from Mr. Zonen, to repeat information that has been published by him in a television broadcast. And I assume that Mr. Zonen still intends to limit his questioning to the published material. It nonetheless raises an issue as to cross-examination. And in the Foss case, which we cited in our papers, if it appears that the defendant's cross-examination would intrude into privileged areas, then it's advised that the Court address that at the outset, because it may be that if the defendant is not going to be permitted to cross-examine into those areas, that the original testimony should not be permitted either. In either case, I just wanted to make sure the Court was apprised that the witness does intend to assert his rights as to unpublished information or confidential source information and to ask the Court's permission to be making objections on his behalf.
The Court: Well, you have my permission to do that.
Ms. Sager: Thank you.
The Court: You know, I thought your points and authorities were well done and complete. One of the things that you mentioned in your points and authorities was that there's a preference to have a hearing outside the presence of the jury before the testimony is proffered to the jury so the Court can determine whether or not the evidence should be allowed.
Ms. Sager: That's correct, Your Honor.
The Court: Based on the right of the defense to cross-examine. Mr. Mesereau, you wish to say --
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, please, Your Honor. Your Honor, as the Court knows, the witness's name came up during the testimony of --
The Court: Just a moment. Would someone create a seat there so she doesn't have to stand.
Ms. Sager: Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: This witness's name came up during the testimony yesterday of Debbie Rowe.
The Court: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: And she did testify, among other things, that he had actually interviewed her at Schaffel's house during the subject interview that was talked about yesterday. This witness was secretly recorded on a number of occasions by Debbie Rowe at the behest of the sheriffs and he also gave a police interview where he talked extensively about various aspects of the case, including Mr. Schaffel and others. Clearly, he had a career motive in doing this. Clearly, there were financial considerations involved, considerations involving advancing his career, and clearly he wanted to be involved in this case. If you look at the secretly recorded conversations, you can gather a lot of his motives to do what he's doing. And to permit him to testify as a prosecution witness and not allow the defense to go into those types of incentives to do various things, say various things, appear in various places, would be highly prejudicial to the defense. So allowing him to just hide behind a journalistic privilege every time his motives and veracity are impeached or contradicted or questioned would be prejudicial to us. He put himself right in the middle of this investigation intentionally, willingly, and knowingly. Met with Mr. Klapakis for an interview, talked about his knowledge of various individuals and various occurrences in the case as he understood them. Was recorded on a number of occasions by the sheriffs because they thought he had information of significance, conducted the interview. How can they possibly, if he gets caught in a problem, say journalistic privilege? I think that would be highly inappropriate and very prejudicial to the defense. Thank you, Your Honor.
Ms. Sager: Your Honor, if I could just briefly respond to Mr. Mesereau's comments. Under Penal Code Section 632, I believe any recordings of Mr. Drew that were done without his knowledge would not be admissible for any purpose. As a reporter, he's engaged in conversations with a great number of people, including Miss Rowe, as she testified to, in the course and scope of his duties as a reporter. The fact that those conversations may have been secretly recorded without his permission, without his knowledge, cannot waive any privilege that he has as a journalist as to information he's attempting to gather. He's reported on Mr. Jackson. He did an interview with Miss Rowe, which everyone has a tape of. And as I understand it, the issue about that interview has already been discussed, there have been other witnesses who have testified, and the tape of the entire interview is available. So there's nothing Mr. Drew can add to that equation. As to his -- what Mr. Mesereau described as an interview with detectives, when detectives showed up, as I understand it, at Mr. Drew's office to subpoena him, he was asked about statements that he had made on television, and again referred to those statements that he had already made on television, the published statements. He didn't have an attorney. He didn't have anyone advising him of his rights at that point, and again, I don't think that could be viewed as a knowing waiver of his rights. Nor is that a publication within the meaning of Article I, Section 2(b) of the California Constitution. He was not disseminating information to the public in any conversation he had with the detective who was serving him with a subpoena. As I understand it, there's one statement that the prosecution intends to ask Mr. Drew about, and that was in this particular television broadcast concerning a conversation that he had with one of Mr. Jackson's -- I don't know how you would describe him, someone that Mr. Jackson knew. That person is certainly a witness who could testify as to that. As I understand, it's about whether the family at issue left the ranch at some point in the middle of the night. I don't believe that's disputed. So it's difficult for me to see what Mr. Drew can add to these proceedings in any case, and certainly nothing that would justify invading his privilege by opening him up to questions about conversations he had during the course and scope of his news-gathering activities.
The Court: Mr. Zonen?
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, we intend to limit our inquiry to information that was disclosed by Mr. Drew on national television. It's published information, therefore it's not protected by the shield law.
The Court: Well, but that's not the issue, is it? I mean, that --
Mr. Zonen: That's one issue. The next issue is the question of whether or not cross-examination --
The Court: Right.
Mr. Zonen: -- is important for impeachment. We believe that the information that we are going to be asking him is about a statement made by another person, one of the unindicted co-conspirators, to the effect that the Arvizo family had fled from Neverland, and therefore Mr. Drew would not be able to conduct an interview that he expected to do. I don't know that the content of that information requires an extensive cross-examination into collateral areas. I think it can be adequately cross-examined as to that statement alone without going too far beyond the published information.
The Court: Well, I think what we'll do is you can call your witness, you can ask him the questions, and then I'll understand what you're going to ask him in front of the jury and what his answers are going to be --
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
The Court: -- and then we'll see what --
Mr. Zonen: Shall we do that at this time?
The Court: -- what Mr. Mesereau wants to do. Yesterday he filed a motion to prevent someone from testifying and later withdrew it, so....
Mr. Zonen: He might wish to do that today.
The Court: I don't know. Call your witness.
Mr. Zonen: Did you wish to do that outside the presence of the jury at this time?
The Court: Absolutely. That's the point.
Mr. Zonen: Yes. We're prepared to do that. Would you call Mr. Drew down, please.
Ms. Sager: As I believe the District Attorney knows, Mr. Drew is not in the courthouse. He was told to be here at ten o'clock.
The Court: Oh, okay.
Ms. Sager: I was asked by Mr. Zonen's office last night to show up early in case the Court wanted to hear argument on that.
The Court: That's not a problem. We can do the hearing later.
Ms. Sager: Okay. I will go outside, though, and call him, Your Honor, and tell him to come directly to the courthouse, and he'll be available whenever the Court can then hear him.
The Court: If he's going to be here at 10:00, that's fine.
Mr. Zonen: I don't know that our other witness will necessarily go to ten o'clock. If we're not going to be dealing with --
The Court: I thought you were going to try to get other witnesses for me.
Mr. Zonen: We are not able to do that. The witnesses we had I think were the ones that we identified yesterday.
The Court: But I was told you would attempt to get other witnesses to fill the day. Because I didn't give you permission for a short day today, or no day.
Mr. Zonen: I apologize to the Court. We are not able to do that.
The Court: Go ahead and call your client, please.
Ms. Sager: I'll do that. Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Zonen: We have a witness who's ready to proceed at this time.
The Court: All right. You can bring in the jury.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: Good morning again.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
The Court: It's getting to be a habit, isn't it? Counsel, call your next witness.
Mr. Zonen: We'll call Detective Craig Bonner to the stand.
The Court: I believe you were already sworn. You may be seated.
Message: CRAIG BONNER Having been previously sworn, resumed the stand and testified further as follows:
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Detective, good morning.
Craig Bonner: Good morning.
Mr. Zonen: You've already testified previously, I believe, on a couple of occasions already. Detective, you've already testified previously on a couple occasions. There's an exhibit that's in front of you. Could you take that exhibit, please? And is that Exhibit 827?
Craig Bonner: Yes, it is.
Mr. Zonen: And does that correspond to the Sheriff's No. 817?
Craig Bonner: Yes, it does.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recognize that exhibit?
Craig Bonner: Yes, I do.
Mr. Zonen: What is that exhibit?
Craig Bonner: It is an audio cassette tape which contains a recording of Janet Arvizo and Frank Tyson, or Cascio.
Mr. Zonen: This is a telephone conversation; is that correct?
Craig Bonner: It appears to be, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Was that tape-recording delivered to a lab in Los Angeles County?
Craig Bonner: Yes, it was.
Mr. Zonen: And what lab was that?
Craig Bonner: The Aerospace Corporation and/or the National Law Enforcement and Corrections Technology Center.
Mr. Zonen: The purpose for delivering that tape to that lab was what?
Craig Bonner: To have them analyze it, and to determine if there were any breaks or stops that occurred within that recording.
Mr. Zonen: Who was it who delivered that tape to the lab?
Craig Bonner: I did.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. No further questions.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Good morning.
Craig Bonner: Good morning.
Mr. Sanger: The National Law Enforcement Technology and -- whatever it was --
Craig Bonner: Corrections and Technology.
Mr. Sanger: Corrections and Technology. This is actually a private company, is that right?
Craig Bonner: It is.
Mr. Sanger: And they market their services to law enforcement; is that correct?
Craig Bonner: I believe they have a grant through the government that they get paid to assist law enforcement.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. It's a private company, but they market their services to law enforcement?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
Mr. Sanger: Asked, but not answered.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Craig Bonner: I don't believe they market their services, no.
Mr. Sanger: They let you know that they exist and they're available to do work; is that correct?
Craig Bonner: That's correct, yes.
Mr. Sanger: They get paid by doing the work?
Craig Bonner: Not by us, no.
Mr. Sanger: They get paid by this grant?
Craig Bonner: I believe so, correct.
Mr. Sanger: That's your understanding? All right. Now, did you seize this particular item that you took down?
Craig Bonner: No, I did not.
Mr. Sanger: So you took it out of the evidence locker?
Craig Bonner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: At the sheriff's department?
Craig Bonner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you delivered it down to the -- to the lab; is that right?
Craig Bonner: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then you stayed for a while while some work was done; is that correct?
Craig Bonner: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: Not all the work was done while you were there?
Craig Bonner: No.
Mr. Sanger: You left it?
Craig Bonner: Left the item?
Mr. Sanger: Yes.
Craig Bonner: No.
Mr. Sanger: What did you do?
Craig Bonner: I remained with this item until they had brought it into their system, and then I retained this item and brought it back to the sheriff's department.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So they made a copy to do the rest of their work?
Craig Bonner: They brought it in digitally. I'm not real savvy on it, but basically they played it into their system, which brought it into a computer, and then they utilized that material that was saved onto the computer.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. In other words, that is an audiotape. That's a regular cassette, little reel-to-reel cassette?
Craig Bonner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Magnetic tape, correct?
Craig Bonner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And while you were there, they did some analysis of the actual tape?
Craig Bonner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then while you were there, they copied it into digital format of some sort?
Craig Bonner: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then you took the actual tape and you brought it back?
Craig Bonner: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, what is your understanding as to the source of the original tape?
Craig Bonner: This tape came from the office of Brad Miller.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. In other words, as one of the detectives working on the case, you are familiar with the source of various items of evidence; is that right?
Craig Bonner: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And that was something that was seized during the search warrant execution at Brad Miller's office, correct?
Craig Bonner: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: In other words, it was not offered to law enforcement as a piece of evidence that was helpful to Mr. Miller or helpful to Mr. Jackson, or helpful to anybody; is that correct?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as beyond the scope of the direct examination and beyond the scope of his personal knowledge. And relevance.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. It was something that was -- that was simply seized during a surprise search, right?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Irrelevant; beyond the scope of his knowledge.
Mr. Sanger: Well, that's the question.
The Court: Sustained. Argumentative.
Mr. Sanger: All right. It's still my last question. No further questions.
Mr. Zonen: No further questions. I will call Dr. Harry Koons to the stand.
The Court: You may step down. Remain standing, raise your right hand, and face the clerk here.
Message: HARRY KOONS Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Harry Koons: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Harry Koons: My name is Harry Koons, K-o-o-n-s.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Mr. Zonen: May I proceed?
The Court: Yes.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Dr. Koons, good morning.
Harry Koons: Good morning.
Mr. Zonen: What is your current occupation?
Harry Koons: I'm a scientist.
Mr. Zonen: You're a scientist in what capacity?
Harry Koons: I'm a scientist at The Aerospace Corporation in El Segundo, California. It's the Space Science Applications Laboratory. And our company is a -- well, it hosts an FFRDC, which is a federally funded research and development center, which primarily assists the Air Force and national security agencies in their space programs.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Do you also have a second company titled “The National Law Enforcement and Corrections Technology Center”?
Harry Koons: Yes. That's also hosted by The Aerospace Corporation and it's funded by the National Institute of Justice.
Mr. Zonen: Let's start with the first one, The Aerospace Corporation. What is your position there with The Aerospace Corporation?
Harry Koons: I'm a distinguished scientist.
Mr. Zonen: What kind of work do you do with the Aerospace Corporation?
Harry Koons: On the Air Force side, I have flown instruments on spacecraft to make measurements in the magnetosphere of what we call plasma waves, and I'm also an expert on the space hazards to spacecraft.
Mr. Zonen: All right. I think the other microphone is on as well.
Harry Koons: Shall I just talk in the middle?
Mr. Zonen: You need to be close to one or the other, but whichever is more comfortable.
Harry Koons: Either one is okay.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What is your education, your qualifications, please?
Harry Koons: I have a bachelor's of science in physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and a Ph.D. in geophysics also from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Mr. Zonen: How long have you worked with The Aerospace Corporation?
Harry Koons: I joined them right out of graduate school in 1968.
Mr. Zonen: Give us a sense of what type of work you do for Aerospace Corporation. How do you spend your day?
Harry Koons: I have a million hats. I spend most of my time either -- working on scientific papers. I spend 20 percent of my time on the forensics audio. I spend about 40 percent of my time working with the program offices on trying to help them with their problems on their space programs. There's almost no way I spend a given day.
Mr. Zonen: Now let's turn to the National Law Enforcement and Corrections Technology Center. Tell us what that is and how that happens to be associated with The Aerospace Corporation.
Harry Koons: It began in 1995. There was a -- an initiative by the National Institute of Justice to find a way of helping local law enforcement agencies in their work. They recognized that a lot of agencies didn't have a lot of funding for detailed forensics work, and so they issued a proposal for organizations with more capabilities to help them. And so Aerospace responded with a proposal, and out of that was formed the National Law Enforcement and Corrections Technology Center at Aerospace.
Mr. Zonen: And what kind of work do you do with the National Law Enforcement and Corrections Technology Center?
Harry Koons: I personally am responsible for the audio forensics work.
Mr. Zonen: Is there other forms -- are there other forms of forensic work that are done by that center as well?
Harry Koons: Yes. Video forensics and also crime scene analysis. We have a large capability in our support for the Air Force, electron microscopes and very sensitive equipment that can be used to analyze materials. And so it's essentially a matrix organization that if the Law Enforcement Center needs something in the laboratories, they go to the person in the laboratories. The video and the audio efforts have been more or less continuous since its inception.
Mr. Zonen: All right. What is it that you do with regard to audiotapes?
Harry Koons: Primarily what we do is we enhance the audio to allow for a transcription. Most people would call this clarifying the audio. We also, from time to time, are asked to look at the tapes for special reasons. Some of them, for example, are to identify the number of gunshot wounds -- or not “wounds”. Gunshots that were fired at a scene that was recorded. At other times to try to identify the number of people that were present during the recording. We've been asked to try to determine where a recording was made based upon background sounds that were heard on the tape.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Are you able to make determinations as to whether a tape is a first-generation or second-generation tape? Is that something that can be done?
Harry Koons: We can -- we can do that, in some cases, by looking at the content of the -- of the tape, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Are you able to determine whether there are breaks in a tape?
Harry Koons: Yes. Normally we can determine if there are breaks in the audio in the tape.
Mr. Zonen: Are you able to determine, on occasion, whether a tape is a compilation of prior other multiple tapes?
Harry Koons: Normally we can do that, yes.
Mr. Zonen: How do you do those things?
Harry Koons: Each one is done in a different way. Let's start at the back and work forward. If you have a compilation of a multiple of tapes, you'll have different background audio on the different segments. And, for instance, if one segment, at the extreme, if it was made in a restaurant, and another section was made out on a street with passing cars, and another section was made in a home with a television on, that you can look at the backgrounds of each of these tapes and identify the background in the ways that you see, and you can see where these different sections are on the tape. You ask -- what was the second one?
Mr. Zonen: The second one was breaks in a tape.
Harry Koons: Breaks. Okay. For breaks in a tape, you again look at the background, and when you have a -- a discontinuity, or a break in the tape, you'll normally have -- the tape will start and stop, start up again, stop, start up again, and you can see signatures of this on the waveforms on the tape. You will also find lines in the background. By “line”, I mean a constant frequency. For instance, one line which appears on many tapes is a power line at 60 hertz, and if that power line is discontinuous you could say that the tape was started and stopped when the power line disappears and reappears.
Mr. Zonen: I think the first question that was asked to you was multiple generations of tapes.
Harry Koons: Yeah, multiple generation is more difficult. Normally, with the capabilities we have, when a tape is started and played, and stopped and started again, that -- there's an erase head on the tape-recorder, and the erase head erases the material that was on the tape prior to that. Now, some laboratories have the capability of going in and examining the material of the tape itself, and they may be able to identify if the tape was started and stopped. We can only look at the content of the tape. And normally what we would do when we're asked a question like that is we would look at the beginning of the tape and we would look at the end of the tape and see if there's material which is not contiguous with the material in the middle of the tape, and also look at the end of the tape to see whether, if the present material that was recorded, let's say, is recorded on only one half of the tape. And then if the tape was previously used there would still be material on the second half of the tape, unless somebody recorded -- erased it all the way to the end.
Mr. Zonen: Doctor, when did you begin doing forensic analysis of audiotapes?
Harry Koons: 1995.
Mr. Zonen: How many do you think you have done since that time?
Harry Koons: About 200 cases, give or take 10 or 20.
Mr. Zonen: Have you ever had occasion to testify in court as to your analysis of those tapes?
Harry Koons: No, I haven't. I've been subpoenaed twice before and I have not testified in court.
Mr. Zonen: This is your first occasion?
Harry Koons: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I hope you're comfortable this morning.
Harry Koons: I'm fine.
Mr. Zonen: Doctor, did you have an occasion to analyze a tape that was presented to you by Detective Craig Bonner from the Santa Barbara County Sheriff's Office?
Harry Koons: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: Could you tell us approximately when that was?
Harry Koons: They brought the tape to us on June 1st of last year. And according to our logbook, which I may want to refer to later -- but according to our logbook, they stayed with us while we digitized the tape. Digitizing means taking a copy of the audio from the tape and putting it onto a computer. That was done by a technician and I was standing there while he did that. And then we gave the tape back to Craig Bonner. We went up to my office and we looked at it for a period of time. I don't remember how long it was. There was another gentleman with him, I believe, and then they left. And about a month later, I went through and did a detailed analysis of the tape and wrote a letter, which I sent to him at the time.
Mr. Zonen: All right. The work that you do is off the digital copy of that tape, then; is that correct?
Harry Koons: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: And the process of making a digital copy of a tape, does that in any way transform the original tape?
Harry Koons: No.
Mr. Zonen: It wouldn't affect the integrity of the content of that tape?
Harry Koons: No. There would be no effect on the tape at all.
Mr. Zonen: What was your assignment in this case as to the digital copy of that tape? What was your assignment?
Harry Koons: Our assignment was to determine if there were any breaks in the audio.
Mr. Zonen: Just for purposes of clarity to make sure that we're on the same topic, did you have an opportunity to actually listen to the tape as well?
Harry Koons: Yes, partly. We were listening to the tape, but partly we were looking at pictures of the image of the audio on the screen. I have listened to about 90 percent of the tape.
Mr. Zonen: Is this a tape of what appears to be a telephone conversation between two people, predominantly two people?
Harry Koons: Okay. Two people.
Mr. Zonen: An adult woman and an adult man and a child?
Harry Koons: And a child, yes. Three people.
Mr. Zonen: Predominantly the adult woman and the adult child -- the adult man?
Harry Koons: That's right.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Doctor, what did you do with this tape? The copy, that is. What were you seeking to do and what did you do?
Harry Koons: Well, the primary thing we were asked to do was to determine if there were any breaks in the audio. And the first thing that I did was I -- I put an image of the audio on the screen and just looked at the entire tape at one time. And my impression was that it was relatively continuous. And -- because the background appeared to be about the same level from the beginning of the tape to the end. There's 22 minutes of audio on the tape. It's a 30-minute tape. And then I went in and I started at the beginning and I looked at the segments which were one minute long. And the first thing I noticed was that, I think it was 13 seconds or so into the tape, there appeared to be a discontinuity. And so I blew that up and I took a look at it, and there was, in fact, a gap at that time period. And so having seen one, then I sort of had some idea what I should look for if there were others like that one. And so I moved along through the tape, and I identified a number of these -- these gaps. The gaps are very short on the tape. They're about two seconds each.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Tell us what you were able to determine with regards to gaps in the tape.
Harry Koons: We found 34 gaps. And they had a characteristic signature. And the signature was very close to the same as when the tape was first started. And by this I mean that if you start an audiotape, there are wheels that take up reel on the feed reel that have to turn, and it takes a little while to get those to turn, “a little while” being a second or so. And during that time period when the amplifier is trying to put a voltage onto that tape, it makes a little signature that looks a little bit like this, and it's a couple tenths of a second long. And if you look at the beginning of the tape, you get that signature very clearly the first time it's turned on. There was no audio in front of it and you see that signature. And what I found, then, was a very similar circumstance, not identical each time. But each time there was a gap, there was a signature that looked just like that one at the beginning.
Mr. Zonen: What would cause a gap in a tape?
Harry Koons: Can I refer to my notes on this?
Mr. Zonen: Yes. Please, go ahead.
Harry Koons: At the time I was analyzing it, I made a note of what I thought might be causing these. And instead of trying to remember it, I'd like to see if I can find it in here and --
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead and take a look and read it, but don't read it out loud.
Harry Koons: Yeah. Okay. It was July 2nd, and I made a note --
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object. There's no question pending.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: What I'd like you to do is go ahead and read the notes that you have made quietly to yourself.
Harry Koons: To myself.
Mr. Sanger: And then after he does that, I would like to see what notes he's referring to.
Mr. Zonen: I have no objection.
Harry Koons: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: May I approach, Your Honor? Hang on, one second. Your Honor, could we approach for a moment, please?
The Court: Yes. (Discussion held off the record at sidebar.)
The Court: I'm going to take a brief recess to give counsel an opportunity to look at the notes before further examination, so I'll see you in a few minutes.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: All right, Counsel.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Zonen: Dr. Koons, we left off, I was asking some questions about breaks in this --
Bailiff Cortez: Your microphone.
Mr. Zonen: Dr. Koons, when we left off, I was asking you some questions about the breaks in this tape, and I think you proffered the opinion that there were 34 breaks; is that correct?
Harry Koons: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And then I had asked you what types of things or occurrences could cause breaks of such a nature, and you had referred to some notes and you've read some notes.
Harry Koons: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Are you prepared at this time to answer that question?
Harry Koons: Yes, I am. I hope I can remember all four of them. I identified four things that could cause breaks such as this. So one is the “pause” button on the tape-recorder. If you press the “pause” button and you press it again to restart it, you would get a break in the tape. Another would be a press-to-talk telephone that, I don't know if -- you may not be familiar with these in the home context very often, but in a classified context, you have a telephone with a button on the handle, and the only time you can hear a person speak is when the button is pressed. Another is the “mute” button on the telephone would cause the audio to go out, and then, when you unmute it, to come back in again. And I don't remember the fourth one.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Would it help to look at your notes again to see what it was?
Harry Koons: Yeah, probably. Oh, a voice-activated line; that if you have a voice activation on your recorder, the recorder will stop and start. It will start whenever it hears a loud -- a signal such as a person beginning to talk, and it will stop when a person stops talking.
Mr. Zonen: Would that tend to explain breaks in a first-generation tape?
Harry Koons: Yes, it would.
Mr. Zonen: Would it explain breaks in a second-generation tape?
Harry Koons: No. It really can't do that, because a second-generation tape is not made with a microphone. It's made by copying or using wires from one tape-recorder to -- the source to the destination tape-recorder.
Mr. Zonen: Let's talk about the first generation, then, if we could. Is it your understanding or does it appear that this is a tape-recording of a telephone conversation?
Harry Koons: Yes, I believe it is.
Mr. Zonen: How do people generally tape-record telephone conversations?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Calls for speculation; no foundation.
Mr. Zonen: I'm not asking this specific time, but simply how is it done that telephone conversations are taped.
The Court: The foundation is sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how people tape-record telephone conversations?
Harry Koons: Yes, there are two basic ways to do it.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to move to strike as nonresponsive beyond “Yes”.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Zonen: You said, “Yes”.
Harry Koons: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: During the course of the work that you have done over the last ten years, have you, in fact, tape-recorded telephone conversations?
Harry Koons: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And have you examined conversations that have been tape-recorded?
Harry Koons: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And does your study require that you look into the manner in which the conversations are tape-recorded as well?
Harry Koons: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And would that be important to your analysis?
Harry Koons: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. What are the ways in which telephone conversations are tape-recorded?
Harry Koons: There are two ways. One, you place a small microphone on the handset. And that's usually not a very good way, because it's not strongly coupled into the conversation on the phone. The second is to put a sensor in-line with the handset. You have these modular plugs that plug into a modern handset, and you have a device that you plug in-line there, and so it picks up the conversation going in both directions very well.
Mr. Zonen: Now, can you tell by listening to a tape-recorded conversation what method was used to tape-record that conversation?
Harry Koons: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have a sense of what method was used in this case?
Harry Koons: I believe it was the in-line sensor.
Mr. Zonen: Why is that?
Harry Koons: Because of the quality. It had a good pickup at both ends of the conversation.
Mr. Zonen: Now, when we talk about first-generation or second-generation tape, what are we talking about?
Harry Koons: A first-generation tape is called a virgin tape, where the first audio is recorded onto the tape. A second-generation tape is one of two things. It's either an overrecording of that one, or it's taking the material on the first tape and recording it onto a second tape.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, can you tell whether this recording is a first- or second-generation tape or subsequent to that?
Harry Koons: There's -- there's some evidence that it's a second-generation tape.
Mr. Zonen: And what is the evidence that you saw?
Harry Koons: The evidence is the first piece of recording, the first 13 seconds or so of recording, is very different than all of the other, which suggested that the -- that the tape had been used for something else and the second recording started later in the tape.
Mr. Zonen: Can you tell whether or not this is a tape that is a compilation of multiple conversations?
Harry Koons: I personally cannot determine that.
Mr. Zonen: It could be or could not be?
Harry Koons: It could be or could not be.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, is it possible that this could be a tape-recording of a single conversation but where pieces have been taken out, portions of the conversation deleted?
Harry Koons: If it's a second-generation tape, yes. If it's a first-generation tape, probably not.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Let's -- go ahead and explain that to us. Let's see, what's the first probability, or the first possibility? The first-generation tape.
Harry Koons: Okay. If it's --
Mr. Zonen: Tell us what you mean when you say “probably not” in terms of first generation.
Harry Koons: Okay. If it's a --
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object to this line of questioning as no foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead.
Harry Koons: If it's a first-generation tape, you can usually identify it by the length of the -- of the pauses. For example, if you press the “pause” and then you go some distance, it usually takes longer than on a second-generation tape. And also, you can tell by the context of the material that's recorded on the tape where the breaks occur in it.
Mr. Zonen: All right. In this particular case, you suggested a greater likelihood of second generation?
Harry Koons: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And then we were asking some questions -- I was asking some questions about pauses on a second-generation tape and whether or not this could be simply copied from another tape. Explain how you would have those types of breaks then, please.
Harry Koons: The -- the way that you -- you make a high-quality second-generation tape with material from other tapes, if that's what you mean --
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Harry Koons: -- is you would pick the section that you want to record, you would turn on the two tapes and record a section, and then you would pause the one you're recording onto. And then you would go to either another tape or another place on the first tape, and you would set it up so that you're about to record it again, and you begin it a little ahead of time, and you hit the “pause” button to start it recording again, and you can record a second recording onto the tape. You can take any number of tapes, then, and put them onto one tape that way.
Mr. Zonen: What you effectively can do, then, is take portions of an original tape and put it on a second tape, and leave out whatever portions you wish to leave out?
Harry Koons: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have any way of knowing whether the tape you analyzed was, in fact, the product of that kind of conduct?
Harry Koons: Not really.
Mr. Zonen: I --
Harry Koons: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. You have no way -- let me reask that question.
Harry Koons: From the analysis that we do, you cannot determine that.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Harry Koons: You would have to use the context to determine that.
Mr. Zonen: All right. In other words, reading the content of it?
Harry Koons: Yes. Now, can I elaborate?
Mr. Zonen: Yes, please.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object. There's no question pending and there's no foundation based on what was just said.
The Court: Foundation is -- no question pending is sustained.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Explain to me exactly what the limitations are in terms of what you're able to do.
Harry Koons: We are able to -- to look at the audio in several formats on the computer screen. And normally what we look for for breaks are discontinuities in the background or discontinuities in the amplitude. In this case, we found -- we found both, but the -- the type is such that it could be generated by either a “pause” button on a -- going to a second-generation tape or possibly a “pause” button on a first-generation tape.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Harry Koons: It's only the context of the conversation would tell you which it is.
Mr. Zonen: You can't tell whether, again, this is first generation or second generation, other than the clues that you have already testified to?
Harry Koons: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Doctor, I'd like you to look at Exhibits No. 857 and 858 that are before you. Tell us what those two documents are.
Harry Koons: May I start with the second one?
Mr. Zonen: 858?
Harry Koons: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Yes. Please go ahead.
Harry Koons: 858 is a record of the amplitude of the signal from the tape for 1.8 seconds beginning at two minutes and about 37 seconds into the tape. And in the center of the picture, it shows a section where, first of all, the level goes almost to zero, and then it's at a very low level. Then there's a transient at the turn-on and then it's followed by speech. So there's speech at the beginning, speech at the end, and the transient in the middle is what I have been calling a break.
Mr. Zonen: And the other exhibit, 857, what is that?
Harry Koons: 857 is the same time period with a different depiction. This shows what we call an audiogram, or a spectrogram, and it shows the intensity as a function of frequency and then with time running along the horizontal or X axis, and it shows in the background the same break as a lightening of the signal. So this is two different ways of looking at a break at exactly the same time period on the tape.
Mr. Zonen: How did you generate those two exhibits?
Harry Koons: We use a software tool called Adobe Audition, and that is actually listed up on the -- on the menu line on the screen. And this is a screen capture where we take the image from the screen and we capture it and we save it as a file on the disk. So this is what we were looking at at the time.
Mr. Zonen: So this is actually the equivalent of a photograph, or a copy of --
Harry Koons: A photograph of the screen. An image of the screen.
Mr. Zonen: Yes. Of exactly the image that you look at --
Harry Koons: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: -- when you make your determinations --
Harry Koons: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: -- and analysis?
Harry Koons: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And this is for a relatively small period of time, is it?
Harry Koons: 1.8 seconds it says on here.
Mr. Zonen: And in 1.8 seconds, does it generate sufficient information that you can actually see and identify a break at that time point?
Harry Koons: Yes, the -- yes.
Mr. Zonen: You talked to us about the signature. You used that term early on in your testimony. What does that refer to?
Harry Koons: The signature is shown on both of these. It's shown best on 858, and that's the -- there is a -- a wave in the line at 238, just before 238.1 seconds, which is what happens when you turn this particular tape-recorder on.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Are these breaks relatively short in duration?
Harry Koons: They're very short. This one is only about a second long.
Mr. Zonen: The other 33 breaks in this telephone conversation, are they comparable to that one as well?
Harry Koons: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What does that suggest to you, that all of the breaks are roughly comparable and fairly short in duration?
Harry Koons: That they were -- I think in this case, in addition to the signature, they were all made in the same way.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Would it be difficult to have relatively short breaks if you are stopping and starting a tape-recording during the course of a conversation?
Harry Koons: Well, the breaks would still be short. It's the context that's different.
Mr. Zonen: Oh, I see. The content of the conversation itself. Okay. The two exhibits that we've been referring to, 857 and 858, do they accurately depict the content contained in those exhibits? In other words, are they an accurate depiction of what you looked at during the course of your examination?
Harry Koons: Yes, they are.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, I would move to introduce 857 and 858 into evidence.
Mr. Sanger: No objection.
The Court: They're admitted.
Mr. Zonen: And may we publish those two at this time?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: In front of you should be a laser that I left -- you have it. Good. Go ahead, please, and tell us what it is that you're looking at.
Harry Koons: Yes, we're looking at an image of -- do I have to talk close to this?
Mr. Sanger: We haven't identified which exhibit is up there, for the record.
Mr. Zonen: 858. That's Exhibit 858 that's currently being shown.
Mr. Zonen: And yes, I'm sorry, I know that's an awkward position, but you do have to continue to speak through the microphone.
Harry Koons: They won't be able to see through me. This is an image of the screen when we were analyzing the tape, and the time runs along the bottom axis here. It's virtually impossible for you to read it, but it starts at two minutes 36.994 seconds. That means two minutes and essentially 37 seconds into the tape. It's very difficult to read this little number down here, but that says that the view is 1.8 seconds long. So the time from here to there is 1.8 seconds. The signature is the amplitude of the signal, and it's centered at the center, about zero. And the best analogy that I can make with this is, if there are people here that are old enough to remember what a vinyl record is, this is very much like the groove in that vinyl record; that the needle would be moving along here, and so it would move faster here, and hardly move at all here, and then it goes through a big bump, and then more here. And by -- on a vinyl record, it reproduces the audio in the same way that the voltage that we're displaying here, when it's passed through a speaker on a computer, reproduces the speech.
Mr. Zonen: Do you see the signature that you refer to?
Harry Koons: Yes. The signature extends from here to here, right in -- right in the center, and this is the primary signature which I've been calling the turn-on signature.
Mr. Zonen: And the break that you refer to?
Harry Koons: Yes, the break is really this entire time period, that during this time period the audio turned off, right here. It's very low here. And then this is the turn-on signature when the reel started to come back up to speed. And then there's normal speech after about this time here. So this is all a transient that occurred during what I call the break in the tape.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Let's go ahead to 858, if we can.
Harry Koons: Okay. This is exactly the same --
Mr. Sanger: Excuse me, Your Honor.
Mr. Zonen: We need a question.
Mr. Sanger: I think this is 857. Am I wrong?
Harry Koons: Yes, this is --
Mr. Zonen: Forgive me. My dyslexia is acting in. This is 857. The last one, then, was 858, if we could correct the record accordingly.
Mr. Zonen: Please go ahead and tell us about 857.
Harry Koons: Yes, this is the same time period, starting at 236.994 and extending for 1.8 seconds across the axis here. And what's displayed on the vertical axis now is frequency. And the best way to explain this is if you look at this signature over here, this is a word that a person has spoken, and what you can see is the fundamental of their voice box and then the harmonics of their -- of their voice. And you can also see that over here and over here. And this is the time period which was very quiet where I said that the tape had turned off. And you can see that the noise at the bottom, which is indicated by the yellow, has gone away. The blue indicates the lowest volume at that frequency; the green, an intermediate volume; the yellow, a louder volume; and the red, the loudest volume. And the frequency scale is on the left over here. It's impossible to read it there. This is 500 hertz -- oop, no, I think you want to.... Okay. Yes, okay. So this is a thousand hertz, and it goes well above what most people's hearing is at, at ten kilohertz up here. Take it back to the full.... So if you can remember what I showed on the preceding exhibit, this is the period when it went very quiet. This is a period where there was just a little bit of low frequency noise here. This is the transient, and this is the beginning where it begins to have speech again over here. So this is the characteristic signature, on this particular media, of a break.
Mr. Zonen: Doctor, you had mentioned something about a voice-activated tape-recorder. What is a voice-activated tape-recorder?
Harry Koons: A voice-activated tape-recorder is a tape-recorder which, if the room goes silent, turns off. And if somebody speaks in the room or there's a noise in the room, the tape-recorder turns back on again.
Mr. Zonen: Does there generally have to be a period of silence before the tape-recorder is activated or deactivated?
Harry Koons: Yes, it usually takes quite a bit of time before it deactivates, because it doesn't want to miss speech. And so they have a circuit that waits a long time, in terms of seconds, for the silence to decide to turn off, but then they usually turn on very rapidly because they want to get the first words.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Doctor, do you have an opinion as to whether this tape is the product of a voice-activated tape-recorder and then those breaks would have been caused by silence in the conversation?
Harry Koons: My opinion is it's not voice-activated.
Mr. Zonen: And why is that?
Harry Koons: Because the turn-off occurred too rapidly after the speech right here. This is only a few tenths of a second.
Mr. Zonen: All right. We can turn the lights on and turn off the projector at this time.
Mr. Zonen: Doctor, just a couple of final questions. Do you have an opinion as to the nature of the equipment that was used in this particular case?
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object as either asked and answered or it's vague.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead, please. And I guess by “equipment”, I mean both telephones and tape recorders.
Mr. Sanger: Then it's compound.
The Court: Just a minute.
Harry Koons: I really have --
The Court: I'll sustain the objection.
Mr. Zonen: Let's talk about telephones. Does it make a difference to you in terms of your analysis of what type of phones are used?
Harry Koons: Only in the sense of whether it was voice-activated or not.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Harry Koons: But otherwise, no.
Mr. Zonen: Or the recording equipment?
Harry Koons: No.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Do you have a sense of where the recordings took place?
Harry Koons: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Is there any information that would be -- let me rephrase that just for one second. In terms of resolving the question of whether or not this is multiple conversations as opposed to a single long conversation, are you able to hear any unique dynamics in the sounds that would send to suggest that there were recordings at different locations?
Harry Koons: No.
Mr. Zonen: Are you able to tell one way or the other?
Harry Koons: No.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. I have no further questions.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: All right. Dr. Koons, the bottom line to this is that you had a tape which you analyzed, and you believe that the tape -- the recording process was stopped several times during the course of the recording; is that right?
Harry Koons: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. You don't know if it was stopped for five minutes, or ten minutes, or for a second; is that correct?
Harry Koons: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you didn't really listen to the tape to hear the context when you did your initial analysis of this tape; is that correct?
Harry Koons: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Recently you decided to listen to the tape to see if you could kind of hear what the people were saying, right?
Harry Koons: Right.
Mr. Sanger: And when you listened to the context, as far as you could tell, it seems to be pretty much a continuous conversation, correct?
Harry Koons: Most, but not all of it.
Mr. Sanger: The first 13 seconds you had a question about; is that right?
Harry Koons: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And, now, when you looked at the sonographic, if I'm using the right term, analysis, that was pretty much consistent with what you heard when you listened to it like the rest of it; is that right?
Harry Koons: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: In other words, you pretty much have the same background noise. You've got the same level of speech that goes throughout the entire tape; is that correct? With the exception of the first 13 seconds.
Harry Koons: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you had speculated in your bench notes -- in fact, you said, “Speculate on causes”, right?
Harry Koons: Right.
Mr. Sanger: And you said, “Pause on tape-recorder; voice-activated line; push-to-talk phone; mute button”, right?
Harry Koons: Right.
Mr. Sanger: Now, what is an AGC?
Harry Koons: An AGC is an automatic gain control circuit, and the point of an AGC is to try to make the audio level uniform on a tape. If you have, for instance, a conference with people sitting around a large table, and you have a tape-recorder in the middle, that the person closest to it will be naturally louder than the person at the end of the table, and the automatic gain control, when it hears a period when the audio is weak, tries to push it up and amplify it, and if it's strong, it brings it down a little bit so it's uniform on the tape.
Mr. Sanger: And you determined that you did not think this was an automatic gain control function that was causing these apparent breaks; is that correct?
Harry Koons: That's correct. There is no automatic gain control on this recorder.
Mr. Sanger: So as it stands, you really don't know what happened, but there was some kind of break?
Harry Koons: Yes, there are breaks.
Mr. Sanger: All right. You also indicated that there's a signature to these breaks, simply meaning that they appear to have been caused by the same mechanism; is that right?
Harry Koons: That's right.
Mr. Sanger: And from what you could tell by looking at it, it appeared to be some kind of a mechanical function that caused this break; is that right?
Harry Koons: That's right.
Mr. Sanger: All right. In other words, somebody pushed a button, either hit a “stop” button on the recorder, or a “mute” button, or a “pause” button, something like that?
Harry Koons: Can I elaborate on that?
Mr. Sanger: Yes.
Harry Koons: More specifically, by “mechanical”, I meant that it had something to do with probably the rotation of the wheels on the -- the drive on the tape-recorder rather than the button itself. That the wheel will take a little longer or a little shorter to take up slack, for example, at the beginning and end of the tape and the middle of the tape. And so there are many different mechanical things like that, rather than the button itself.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Well -- all right. That's fair enough. In other words, the way these cassette tapes work is that there's a magnetic head --
Harry Koons: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sanger: -- that will alter the tape itself magnetically --
Harry Koons: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: -- when input occurs; is that correct?
Harry Koons: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: So somebody talks; it's translated into energy that affects the magnetic head, that in turn affects the tape; is that right?
Harry Koons: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: So as the tape turns by the head, that's how you record it, right?
Harry Koons: Right.
Mr. Sanger: And if you stop the tape from turning, it stops recording?
Harry Koons: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And so your determination is that at some point it looks like this tape was stopped from time to time?
Harry Koons: Right.
Mr. Sanger: Now, you said you couldn't tell if it was first generation or second generation; is that correct?
Harry Koons: That's true.
Mr. Sanger: And you did not do an analysis of the actual tape?
Harry Koons: Physically.
Mr. Sanger: Physical analysis of the tape. All right. And there are labs that can do that?
Harry Koons: I believe so, yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So you just looked -- once you digitized it, you just looked at the actual electronic remnants of whatever it was that was done to this tape? In other words --
Harry Koons: I don't want to use the word “remnants”, but, yes.
Mr. Sanger: I was trying to think of a better word.
Harry Koons: I know what you mean.
Mr. Sanger: The electronic imprints or whatever it was.
Harry Koons: It's the signature of the electronic signal on the tape.
Mr. Sanger: If you actually look at a tape, sometimes you can determine that there are erasure marks or there's other actual physical --
Harry Koons: Right.
Mr. Sanger: -- marks on the tape; is that right?
Harry Koons: We did not do that.
Mr. Sanger: Did not do that. And I take it, from your analysis, you have no way of determining who it was that stopped this tape from turning from time to time?
Harry Koons: No.
Mr. Sanger: And you have no idea how long the tape stopped; is that correct?
Harry Koons: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: It's even possible that there could be a malfunction in the tape machine, is it not?
Harry Koons: Possibly. But they were not random.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So you don't know how long the tape stopped; in other words, if somebody stopped the tape, got up, went out of the room, came back, or something?
Harry Koons: That's true. Yes.
Mr. Sanger: It could have been just a second that was not recording, couldn't it?
Harry Koons: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Okay. Thank you. I have no further questions.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Doctor, explain to us what you mean by “not random”.
Harry Koons: If you have -- if you have a random process, the -- the distribution of the stops will obey a statistical function called a Poisson function, and these do not fit that function. They're almost uniformly spaced throughout the tape, except at the end, where they become more rapidly in the last minute.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Do you have an opinion as to whether the breaks in this particular tape are caused by a malfunction of the recording device?
Harry Koons: My opinion is they are not.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. No further questions.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Actually, I didn't notice that. So let me ask you about that. You actually -- in your bench notes there, you broke down the times. Are you saying there's essentially a uniform time gap between the tape -- between the --
Harry Koons: Between the gaps.
Mr. Sanger: Between the gaps?
Harry Koons: Not uniform. It's not periodic. But they -- there is a group at the end which is out of character with the other ones, which suggest that it's not random. There were a bunch that occurred in the 21st minute and most of the other minutes had only one or two.
Mr. Sanger: I see what you're saying.
Harry Koons: There was also one period around six to ten minutes where there was no gap at all. So it's not random.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. When you say it's not random, do you mean it's --
Harry Koons: “Random” means a throw of the dice did it.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So because there are groupings, you feel that there's some causation?
Harry Koons: That's right.
Mr. Sanger: So if there was a mechanical problem of some sort, it would have to be a mechanical problem that was more prevalent at one point?
Harry Koons: Than the others, right.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Okay. Thank you. No further questions.
Mr. Zonen: No further questions.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, the next two witnesses require a Court ruling.
The Court: The Court will admit Exhibits 841 and 842 and make a finding that the probative value exceeds the prejudicial effect under 352.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry, I didn't hear the last part of your ruling.
The Court: It was just a finding under 352.
Mr. Zonen: And the finding was it's admissible?
The Court: They are admissible. They are admitted.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. We'll call Detective Rose White to the stand, please.
Mr. Sanger: Is there a limiting instruction that goes along with that, Your Honor?
Mr. Zonen: Smith. I'm sorry, Smith.
The Court: We could do one.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, would it be possible to approach briefly to discuss that?
The Court: Yes. (Discussion held off the record at sidebar.)
The Court: I think the next two witnesses are going to involve these exhibits, are they, or the next one?
Mr. Zonen: The next one witness.
The Court: (To the jury) The next witness is going to involve testimony about two books, Exhibits 841 and 842. And I want to advise you that these exhibits fall within the same instruction I gave you regarding the 1108 evidence, Code Section 1108 evidence relating to the alleged prior sexual acts. Remember those instructions I gave you sometime ago? This material is connected to that and has the same limitation. At the end of the trial, we'll reiterate that instruction for you so that it's -- this won't be the last time you hear the instruction.
Mr. Zonen: We'll call Rose Smith to the stand, Detective Smith, please.
The Court: You've already been sworn. You may be seated.
Rosibel Smith: Thank you, Your Honor.
Message: ROSIBEL SMITH Having been previously sworn, resumed the stand and testified further as follows:
The Court: You're still under oath.
Rosibel Smith: Yes, Your Honor.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: The jury hasn't heard who you are yet. You've already been sworn in, but tell us who you are, please.
Rosibel Smith: Yes. I'm Detective Rosibel Smith. R-o-s-i-b-e-l. S-m-i-t-h. I'm a police detective with the City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles Police Department, currently assigned to the Threat Management Unit of the Detective Support Division.
Mr. Zonen: How long have you been an officer with the Los Angeles Police Department?
Rosibel Smith: For a little over 20 years.
Mr. Zonen: And your current assignment is what again, please?
Rosibel Smith: The Threat Management Unit of the Detective Support Division, and we are responsible for investigating stalking cases, criminal threats and workplace violence.
Mr. Zonen: How long have you been in that unit?
Rosibel Smith: For six years.
Mr. Zonen: And prior to that, what work did you do?
Rosibel Smith: Prior to that, I worked a station called Rampart Detectives, and then prior to that Juvenile Division.
Mr. Zonen: Have you worked as a sex crimes investigator?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, I have.
Mr. Zonen: For what period of time?
Rosibel Smith: For nine years.
Mr. Zonen: And which nine-year period?
Rosibel Smith: From 1988 to 1997.
Mr. Zonen: As part of your responsibilities as a sex crimes investigator, did you conduct and execute search warrants?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: In August of 1993, did you execute a search warrant at Neverland Ranch in Santa Barbara County?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Did you do that with others?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: A few others, I would assume?
Rosibel Smith: There were several others, detectives and officers at the location, yes.
Mr. Zonen: And do you remember which -- where on the property at Neverland Ranch that you personally conducted a search?
Rosibel Smith: In the master bedroom of Mr. Michael Jackson's residence.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, the -- I'd like you to look at three exhibits that are in front of you at this time, Exhibit No. 841 and 842 already in evidence.
Rosibel Smith: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Tell us what those two exhibits are. Let's start with the first one, 841.
Rosibel Smith: 841 is a hard-cover book entitled, “Boys Will Be Boys”.
Mr. Zonen: And what is that a book of?
Rosibel Smith: It's a book depicting images of young boys. Some are clothed. Some are nude. And various stages of dress. Depicts them in various positions, at play, swimming, jumping. So....
Mr. Zonen: Is there an inscription in the front of that book?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, there is.
Mr. Zonen: Is that an inscription in a person's handwriting or printing?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you seize that book?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: From where did you seize that book?
Rosibel Smith: From a file cabinet in the master bedroom of Mr. Jackson's residence.
Mr. Zonen: Now, Mr. Jackson's residence is a -- the bedroom portion of his residence is actually a suite; is that correct?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Is there an upstairs and a downstairs?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, there is.
Mr. Zonen: And the portion from where you seized these items, was that from the upstairs or the downstairs?
Rosibel Smith: It was from the downstairs portion of the bedroom.
Mr. Zonen: And can you -- can you tell us where specifically it was seized from?
Rosibel Smith: It was seized from a file cabinet within a closet in the master bedroom.
Mr. Zonen: Let's go ahead to the next exhibit, 842, and tell us what that is, please.
Rosibel Smith: This is another book, hard-cover book, entitled, “The Boy; A Photographic Essay”.
Mr. Zonen: Can you tell us what this is, please?
Rosibel Smith: And again, this is a book depicting images of young boys, again in various stages of clothing and undress. Some appear to be be nude. And again, various poses; playing, swimming, jumping.
Mr. Zonen: Is there an inscription in the front of that book as well?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Now, Detective, those two items, were they seized from the same location?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, they were.
Mr. Zonen: And I think you've already described that location; is that correct?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I'd like you to look at another exhibit that's before you, which is 856 in evidence.
Rosibel Smith: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: What is 856?
Rosibel Smith: 856 is a photograph of the search warrant. We, as law enforcement, are required to photograph the location that we serve the warrant on. And this is the photograph of the file cabinet where the books were seized from.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And in that file cabinet, are there multiple drawers?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, there are.
Mr. Zonen: Do you actually know from which drawer those books were seized?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, I do.
Mr. Zonen: Which drawer was that?
Rosibel Smith: They were seized from the third drawer.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, may I publish that exhibit? It's already in evidence.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Describe for us, please, the photograph that we're looking at.
Rosibel Smith: To the rear of the photograph is the file cabinet containing the four drawers. The third drawer is where I seized the books from. So it's partly covered by, looks like maybe a briefcase of some sort, or something there.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Detective, how were you able to get into the closet? How were you able to get into the file cabinet?
Rosibel Smith: The closet was -- actually, the room was locked. And we had to get keys for the room, as well as for the file cabinet, to get access into the room and the file cabinet itself.
Mr. Zonen: Were you able to do that?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, we were.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. I have no further questions. You can turn the lights on.
Mr. Sanger: Leave it. Leave it.
Mr. Zonen: Do you need this?
Mr. Sanger: Yeah.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Detective Smith, how are you?
Rosibel Smith: Fine, thank you, sir. How are you?
Mr. Sanger: You mentioned, Detective, that you were -- that you're currently assigned to a unit with the Los Angeles Police Department that investigates a number of things, and I think you said threats?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And one of the things you mentioned is stalking; is that correct?
Rosibel Smith: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And do you, in the course of your duties, investigate celebrity stalkings?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And many times celebrities, in your experience, you find are stalked by fans; is that right?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And is this -- does this pose a danger to the celebrities?
Rosibel Smith: It could, yes.
Mr. Sanger: So you take those seriously?
Rosibel Smith: Absolutely.
Mr. Sanger: In fact, somebody may claim to be a fan, and they come out --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as exceeding the scope of the direct examination.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Very well.
Mr. Sanger: Your assignment back in 1993 was working with the detectives division in sex crimes; is that correct?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: That's Los Angeles Police Department?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: So you got a warrant -- I say “you”. Your department got a warrant to search Mr. Jackson's home in Santa Ynez, in Los Olivos, California; is that correct?
Rosibel Smith: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: That's not within the City of Los Angeles, I take it?
Rosibel Smith: No, it is not.
Mr. Sanger: And you got a warrant issued by a Los Angeles judge?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And the people that came with you at that time, among others, were fellow Los Angeles police officers; is that correct?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you ended up seizing these books that you talked about in the course of that search in 1993; is that right?
Rosibel Smith: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: Now, these two books -- I think -- are they still up there in front of you?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, they are.
Mr. Sanger: Those two books are not unlawful to possess by adults in California; is that correct?
Rosibel Smith: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: And do you have any idea how Mr. Jackson came into possession of those books or how they ended up in this locked file cabinet?
Rosibel Smith: From the inscription in Exhibit No. 842, it appears that possibly a fan, somebody named Rhonda, possibly gave the book to him. And the other one, I do not know.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Your Honor, may I approach and retrieve the books?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you. Your Honor, I'd like to put the book up on the screen, if I may.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'll put the cover up there, first of all. And it says, “The Boy; A Photographic Essay”, and this is -- this is Exhibit 842, correct?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. You referred to the inscription, and I'm going to put the inscription up on the board. I'm not going to put the whole one up because it doesn't fit yet. But in any event, this is on the -- I know there's a word for it, but it's on the first actual page of the book, whatever you call it, right inside the cover; is that right?
Rosibel Smith: That's right.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And you were -- based on this inscription, it appeared to be a book that was presented to Mr. Jackson, or to his people, by a fan; is that correct?
Rosibel Smith: It appears to be, yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then down at the bottom, it looks like it says, “1983”, and that could be “Chicago”, but I don't know. Or is it something else? What do you think?
Rosibel Smith: I -- it's really hard to read. It could possibly be “Chicago”, but I'm not certain.
Mr. Sanger: But in any event, 1983 is the date?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: At the time that you did this -- that you did this search in 1993, did you determine that Mr. Jackson not only received, but kept a tremendous amount of material from fans that was sent to him? I'm not just talking about books, but just things in general that Mr. Jackson received. Did he seem to have a lot of things that had been sent to him by fans, if you can remember?
Rosibel Smith: I do recall him -- or locating letters, notes, from fans.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So even back then, in '93, you were -- or I shouldn't say “even”. He had a lot of fans sending him things. That was your understanding as you were doing this search; is that correct?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, with the Court's permission, I'd like to put up 841. That's the other book.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: If I may.
Mr. Sanger: And this is the cover. We can't get the whole thing on at once, but it's 841 up in the corner, for the record, and it says, “Boys Will Be Boys”, and it has a picture there; right?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: That's the cover. And by the way, this is a commercially -- both of these are commercially available books; is that correct?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And when you open this book up, it actually says -- let's look right over here. I'm going to try to talk loudly while I'm holding this. It says on the flyleaf, “Book Adventures, Inc”., and the copyright 1966. Do you see that?
Rosibel Smith: Yes. Down at the bottom.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And then if we look up here, at the top, again the first page -- I'm sure somebody who knows books knows the correct word for that. But the very first page, up at the top it says, “OP” -- “OP '88”. That means “Out of print, '88”, does it not? Or do you know?
Rosibel Smith: I'm not certain what that means.
Mr. Sanger: And somebody has written up there, “Very scarce”.
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you see that? That was there on the book when you seized it; is that right?
Rosibel Smith: Yes, it was.
Mr. Sanger: And there's some initials that look like “MJ” up in the upper right-hand corner?
Rosibel Smith: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, could you read the inscription for the record, please? And I'll move it up as you go along.
Rosibel Smith: “Look at the true spirit of happiness and joy in the boys' faces. This is the spirit of boyhood, a life I've never had and will always dream of. This is the life I want for my children. MJ”.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you. I have no further questions.
Mr. Zonen: I have no further questions.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down.
Rosibel Smith: Thank you.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, the next witness requires a pre-trial hearing.
The Court: (To the jury) All right. I'm going to excuse you again. We have to have another hearing before this witness may be presented. Is the witness here now?
The Bailiff: The Judge is addressing you.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry, Your Honor. I'm not hearing well today.
The Court: Is the witness here now?
Mr. Zonen: Yes, the witness is here.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
Mr. Zonen: May his counsel sit at the counsel table?
The Court: Yes, for this hearing. Please remain standing and raise your right hand. Face the clerk over here.
Message: IAN DREW Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Ian Drew: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Ian Drew: Ian, I-a-n. Last name is Drew, D-r-e-w.
The Clerk: Thank you.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Zonen: May I proceed?
The Court: No, just a moment. I'm sorry, I want to interrupt you. I'm not sure that I made that finding on the record or at sidebar on Exhibits 841 or 842, both of them, but I previously had reviewed the books and made a finding, preliminary finding, that there were photographs within each book that could be determined to be sexually explicit photographs by a trier of fact, and then I made a finding on -- under 352, which I know is on the record. Now you may proceed with this witness.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you, Your Honor.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Drew, good morning.
Ian Drew: Good morning.
Mr. Zonen: Sir, what is your current occupation?
Ian Drew: Editor at US Weekly Magazine.
Mr. Zonen: What does that mean? What do you do?
Ian Drew: Everything from reporting on stories, to coordinating stories, to a wide array of covering the celebrity news.
Mr. Zonen: How long have you worked in that capacity?
Ian Drew: Um, about two and a half years.
Mr. Zonen: And how long with US Magazine specifically?
Ian Drew: Oh, no. At US Magazine, two and a half years, excuse me. And in the capacity about three and a half years.
Mr. Zonen: What is your -- are you a journalist?
Ian Drew: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What is your training and experience as a journalist?
Ian Drew: I have about three and a half years experience. And I started working at a small newspaper and then moved up to different publications, and have been at US Weekly the longest.
Mr. Zonen: If I can direct your attention back to February of the year 2003. Were you working with or for Michael Jackson at that time?
Ian Drew: No.
Mr. Zonen: Were you working for anybody who was working with or for Michael Jackson?
Ian Drew: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you have any association with either Marc Schaffel or Ronald Konitzer or Dieter Weizner?
Ms. Sager: I'm going to object, Your Honor, to the extent that's calling for unpublished information. I think the question is vague.
The Court: They can't hear you. Is your microphone on?
Ms. Sager: Sorry, Your Honor. I'm objecting to the question as calling for unpublished information and as vague.
The Court: Sustained on both grounds.
Mr. Zonen: Were you called upon to conduct an interview of a family, including a mother of children by the name of Janet Arvizo?
Ian Drew: No.
Mr. Zonen: Were you expecting to do an interview with Janet Arvizo?
Ian Drew: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did that interview ever take place?
Ian Drew: No.
Mr. Zonen: Who was it that was coordinating that interview with you?
Ian Drew: Ronald Konitzer and Marc Schaffel.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know either Ronald Konitzer or Marc Schaffel prior to that day?
Ian Drew: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What is it that you were supposed to be doing with regards to this interview?
Ian Drew: Interviewing them for a print magazine.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know what the subject matter was going to be of that interview?
Ian Drew: How Mr. Jackson did not do anything inappropriate with the family.
Mr. Zonen: Who is it who retained you to do that?
Ian Drew: Marc Schaffel and Ronald Konitzer.
Mr. Zonen: Were you expecting to get paid for that interview?
Ian Drew: I did not get paid through them. I got paid through a magazine.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Ian Drew: I was on staff at a magazine at the time.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Was this an article that would appear in a magazine?
Ian Drew: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: Would it include photographs?
Ian Drew: That was hoped for.
Ms. Sager: Object to the extent it's unpublished information, Your Honor, since there was not an interview published.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever meet with Janet Arvizo or her family?
Ms. Sager: Same objection, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know who they were?
Ms. Sager: Same objection, Your Honor, to the extent that nothing has been published on that subject.
The Court: Sustained. This is -- all objections are under the shield law at this time?
Ms. Sager: Yes, Your Honor.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a conversation with Ronald Konitzer as to whether or not that interview would take place?
Ian Drew: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What did Mr. Konitzer tell you?
Ms. Sager: And, Your Honor, I'll only object to the extent that if it includes information that has not been published, that the witness should not be required to reveal anything unpublished. To the extent that there has been published information on that, we are not objecting.
Mr. Zonen: And let me preface the question with one other....
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Drew, did you appear on national television and discuss this very topic?
Ian Drew: I believe so.
Mr. Zonen: Was the national presentation through Court TV?
Ian Drew: I believe so.
Mr. Zonen: Were you interviewed by someone by the name of Diane Dimond?
Ian Drew: I was.
Mr. Zonen: Have you ever seen that presentation?
Ian Drew: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And you did recognize yourself as well as Miss Dimond?
Ian Drew: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And did you discuss the subject matter of this very interview on national television?
Ian Drew: I believe so. I believe so. Again, I do so many television interviews as part of my job, so remembering what I said in each one is a little difficult, but I believe so.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you, in fact, discuss the reason why this interview was not going to take place?
Ian Drew: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And what was the reason that the interview would not take place?
Ms. Sager: And again, Your Honor, I will only object to the extent that there's any information that has not been published. But to the extent Mr. Drew has revealed any portion of that on national television, we're not objecting.
The Court: So can I take this as an instruction by yourself to your witness to only divulge material that he's previously divulged on television?
Ms. Sager: Yes, Your Honor. Thank you.
The Court: I'll accept that.
Mr. Zonen: Can you answer the question?
Ian Drew: I was told that the family was unavailable.
Mr. Zonen: And what does “unavailable” mean?
Ian Drew: I was told that they had disappeared from the ranch in the middle of the night.
Mr. Zonen: And who had told you that?
Ian Drew: Ronald Konitzer.
Mr. Zonen: In fact, he used the word “escaped”, didn't he?
Ms. Sager: Same objection, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Ms. Sager: Your Honor, we would object to the extent that the word -- whatever words were used in the interview are the words that were used, and any other words should be unpublished information.
Mr. Zonen: The objection was overruled?
The Court: Well, I'm to take that as an instruction to the witness, because the objection is -- it's not really an objection. She's saying, “If something happened, I object. If not, I don't”. So I can't --
Ms. Sager: I understand, Your Honor.
The Court: I could rule if it happened, okay? And if not, no. I think the better way is for you to instruct your witness. And he knows, to the best of his recollection, what he's said and what he hasn't said. And then if there's an issue there, we'll deal with it.
Ms. Sager: Thank you, Your Honor. And I would instruct Mr. Drew not to answer with respect to any words that were not used in his discussion of what Mr. Konitzer said.
The Court: Do you have any idea what the question was you're supposed to answer?
Ian Drew: Could you rephrase, please? Thank you.
Mr. Zonen: What exactly did Ronald Konitzer tell you about the disappearance of the Arvizo family?
Ms. Sager: Again, Your Honor, with the same instruction to the witness, only to answer as to what he said on national television on that subject.
The Court: Can we just -- can you give him that standing instruction that he would tell you or indicate to you, or us, if we're getting into an area he hasn't discussed, so you don't have to keep interjecting yourself?
Ms. Sager: That's fine, Your Honor. I don't know that Mr. Drew has a copy of the transcript of the interview in front of him. And that's the only reason I'm issuing this same objection.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me. Your Honor, am I allowed to participate in this area of objections? I'm not sure.
The Court: You're not sure?
Mr. Mesereau: Well, I think I can. But I know you're trying to determine what's the scope of the privilege. I'm objecting to what he's saying for other reasons. And I'm going to object on hearsay as far as what he said on an interview.
Mr. Zonen: To the extent that they are statements from the unindicted co-conspirator, Mr. Konitzer.
The Court: Well, I think -- he's asking me a question. Yes, you can object, because what we're testing here is what the jury will hear, of course, and then what you can cross-examine on. So if you object to something and it doesn't come in, there's not an issue about cross-examination.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Thank you. I'm objecting on hearsay.
Mr. Zonen: The answer is it's a statement in furtherance of a conspiracy from one of the unindicted co-conspirators, Mr. Konitzer.
The Court: I don't know what the question was now.
Mr. Zonen: What specifically did he say with regard to the disappearance of this family? Would it be helpful if the witness was given a transcript of the television program? We can do that.
The Court: Well, you have to ask the witness that question. That's the question that, would it refresh your recollection if --
Mr. Zonen: I don't believe he's -- well --
Ian Drew: It's a simple enough question, I think. I was told that they had disappeared; that they couldn't keep them there anymore.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Objection.
Ian Drew: And --
The Court: Just a moment. Let him complete it.
Ian Drew: And I believe the word “escaped” was used, but again, I don't -- I can't say word for word. But from -- the best of my recollection, yes, I heard the word “escaped”.
The Court: Okay. Now, I made you wait, but you have an objection of hearsay.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm objecting to double hearsay. What the prosecutor is asking is, “What did you say in an interview about what somebody else said?”
Mr. Zonen: No, I did not.
The Court: He's asking what Mr. --
Mr. Zonen: Konitzer.
The Court: -- Konitzer said. That is hearsay. Now, the question is, was it in the furtherance of the conspiracy? I don't see that it is, so I'll sustain the objection.
Mr. Zonen: I ask to make an offer of proof.
The Court: Yes, you may.
Mr. Zonen: This was -- he was prepared to do the interview of the family, the interview that ultimately was done on the evening of the 19th into the morning hours of the 20th by a different interviewer, and this was going to be done in furtherance of the promotion of the rebuttal film, the portion that was to be contained in the Maury Povich film. The family took off. That was in conjunction with the movement off of Neverland Ranch about that time. It was Mr. Konitzer who was attempting to arrange this, this filming, who then called him and notified him that this filming would not take place because the family had escaped. It's a reflection of the state of mind of the co-conspirator; that the family acted in conformity with the testimony as we presented it. So the objection -- or the exception to hearsay would be both a statement in furtherance of conspiracy, and a statement consistent with the state of mind of the co-conspirator.
The Court: I don't get that. If the information is -- I mean, all of the things you said could be in furtherance of the conspiracy, except we get to this one statement, which is, basically, “Where's the family?” “Well, they escaped”. That is -- that's not in furtherance of the conspiracy. If anything, it might reveal the conspiracy.
Mr. Zonen: The fact that he says they escaped, they disappeared in the middle of the night, reflects, as to Mr. Konitzer, a state of mind consistent with the fact that this family was being kept there against their will, or at least as to the mother. So that would be an admission on his part that the family, in fact, was being kept against their will. And to the extent that that statement was made during the course of the conspiracy, which it was, it was mid-February, then that statement would be an adoptive admission as to each of the unindicted co-conspirators, including the defendant.
The Court: All right. You just changed horses in mid-stream.
Mr. Zonen: I sure did.
The Court: Do you want to address the --
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor. I mean, first of all, I think the Court has an obligation to take into account the whole context of the statement, when it was made, and the purpose that apparently it was made for, in deciding whether it might even be reasonably construed to be in furtherance of a conspiracy.
The Court: I think he conceded suddenly that it's not in furtherance. Now he's asking that it come in as an admission, some sort of admission.
Mr. Mesereau: No, it's a hearsay statement by someone who's never been charged with a crime, who isn't in the courtroom. It's not an admission. They didn't even charge any of these people, except Mr. Jackson.
The Court: Don't -- wait, wait. Talk to me.
Mr. Mesereau: It's not an admission. That's just grabbing for something that doesn't exist. The only way it could possibly get in would be an exception to the hearsay rule, which the Court has, I think, found does not exist.
Mr. Zonen: If I could respond very briefly, Your Honor. Konitzer's state of mind certainly is an issue in this case as one of the unindicted co-conspirators named specifically in the Indictment returned by the grand jury. To that extent it would be relevant. But it is also admissible as either an admission, given the fact that he is an unindicted but named co-conspirator, or a declaration against interest, specifically penal interest, if we were to consider him as an unnamed party to this action.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, again, he's not here. He's not charged. He's not present. He's not testifying. We can't cross-examine him. It's not an admission. And it's clear hearsay. If it can't come in under alleged co-conspirator hearsay by someone who's never even been charged with a conspiracy, it just can't come in.
The Court: Well -- just a minute. You know that's not the law. The law is that statements by co-conspirators, whether they're here or with us today or not, can come in. That's not the issue. That's -- he's -- you're not addressing the issue. But just give me a moment to think here.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, if there was a co --
The Court: Just a moment, please. Okay. I think what you were going to say is, if it were a co-defendant and one co-defendant's admission was attempted to be introduced in a trial of both of them, that it couldn't be introduced in front of the jury. And I agree with you, if it were any other crime but conspiracy.
Mr. Mesereau: But, Your Honor, I don't believe it would come in as an admission. I believe it would come in under co-conspirator hearsay or it couldn't come in.
The Court: They either are trying to help you or they can't hear. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: Oh.
Mr. Zonen: I would object to the first of those choices.
Mr. Mesereau: What I said to Your Honor is in that event, it would not still come in as an admission. It would have to come in as an exception to the hearsay rule and be deemed by the Court co-conspirator hearsay.
The Court: Well --
Mr. Zonen: Can I ask --
The Court: I'm going to --
Mr. Zonen: Can I ask this one question? If, in fact, among the overt acts -- if, in fact, among the overt acts would be acts of this family leaving Neverland Ranch, and to the extent that this person is one of the unindicted co-conspirators, and the overt acts include their efforts to return the family to the ranch and to return the family to this video presentation, then his statement that they had fled the ranch and escaped would certainly be statements in furtherance of the conspiracy in terms of their efforts to renew their activities to bring them back onto the ranch. It would also be an admission on the part of a co-conspirator to the extent of what they were trying to do, and it would be a reflection of that party's state of mind that that's what they wanted to do, was keep them on the ranch until the point that they were able to do this particular interview, and thereafter to Brazil.
Mr. Mesereau: I think I said what I can say, Your Honor. I don't think it can come in in either event.
Mr. Zonen: And I'll submit as well.
Ms. Sager: And, Your Honor, we really don't have a dog in this fight. I want to make sure the record is clear that --
The Court: They can't hear you, so you have to speak into the microphone.
Ms. Sager: We don't have a dog in this fight, but I just want to make sure the record is clear as to what this witness testified about was not the video interview of the family. He was a magazine reporter who was asking for an interview of the family. And I don't want it to be confused with some conspiracy theory about what was or wasn't done with the video and what they were doing with that. That is not what Mr. --
The Court: I'm not -- you have to have been here for 49 days or so. (Laughter.)
Ms. Sager: I understand, Your Honor.
The Court: That's not a problem.
Mr. Zonen: Where does that metaphor come from? This is the second Los Angeles lawyer talking about dogs and fights.
The Court: I don't know. I've used it before. But after hearing someone chastised, I've decided I'll never use it again. I think it's admissible as to the state of mind of the co-conspirator, so I'm going to allow it.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. I have no further questions.
Mr. Mesereau: May I cross-examine, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Thank you.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning, Mr. Drew.
Ian Drew: Good morning. How are you?
Mr. Mesereau: Fine, thank you. You gave an interview to Lieutenant Klapakis and another Santa Barbara sheriff named Robel on August 4th, 2004, correct?
Ian Drew: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know how long that interview was?
Ian Drew: No. I didn't think it was that long, but it was probably a lot longer than it was.
Mr. Mesereau: You waived privileges when you gave that interview, correct?
Ms. Sager: This is a question that's a legal question, not a question for this witness as to whether he waived privileges. He did not have counsel. He had not been advised of rights.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You gave that interview freely and voluntarily, correct?
Ms. Sager: Same objections, Your Honor. He was being served with a subpoena, had no counsel.
The Court: Just a moment here. All right. As to the objection that he had no counsel present, that's overruled. The question pending, which you may answer, is, did you give that interview freely and voluntarily?
Ian Drew: I guess. I didn't know it was an interview, and I didn't know that it was being documented in any way.
Mr. Mesereau: You were not served with a subpoena for purposes of that interview, were you?
Ian Drew: I don't know why I was served with a subpoena. I just got it in the mail.
Mr. Mesereau: You did not attend that interview because you were subpoenaed to do so, right?
Mr. Zonen: Objection.
The Court: Maybe he doesn't know which interview you're talking about.
Ian Drew: I didn't think I was attending any interview.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you interview on August 4th, 2004, with Lieutenant Klapakis and Sergeant Robel of the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department?
Ian Drew: I had a conversation with them.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did the conversation take place?
Ian Drew: Outside of my office.
Mr. Mesereau: And did those two officers meet you outside of your office?
Ian Drew: They did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you speak to them?
Ian Drew: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: You were not subpoenaed to speak to them, were you?
Ian Drew: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You spoke to them about facts concerning this investigation, true?
Ian Drew: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You told them you were a freelance journalist who was currently working for US Weekly Magazine, right?
Ian Drew: That's not true. I've only worked as a staffer at US Weekly.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell them you were a journalist in that interview?
Ian Drew: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell them you were doing some work for US Weekly Magazine?
Ian Drew: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: After you told them you were a journalist, you continued to interview with them, right?
Ian Drew: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You gave them statements about Marc Schaffel, true?
Ms. Sager: Your Honor, to the extent that this is unpublished information that Mr. Drew has gathered in the course of his job as a journalist, I would still assert the shield law, which applies unless he has published information. And the statute and the Constitution specifically say, “disseminated information to the public”. And I'm quoting. So any discussion he may have had with law enforcement officials would not fall within the scope of published information as it's defined in Article I, Section 2(b).
Mr. Mesereau: If I may respond, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: He gave a free, voluntary interview with two sheriffs. He knew they were taking notes. He knew they were going to make a report. He knew it was part of this investigation. He knew that the reports were likely to be circulated. They have been circulated. They are not under any particular special form of privilege. They have been produced to the defense. They are available to use at trial. He knew the information he gave could be used in the investigation.
Ian Drew: That's not true. I didn't know any of that. I knew some of that.
Ms. Sager: Ian. Actually, I was going to object, Your Honor, but I was going to let Mr. Mesereau finish first.
Ian Drew: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: He gave extensive information about Schaffel, Konitzer, his discussions with them, his perceptions of them. And it's very clear from the interview he knew exactly what he was doing.
Ms. Sager: And, Your Honor, I would point out two things. One is Mr. Mesereau, with due respect, has not established any of the things that he just said as to what Mr. Drew knew or didn't know. He's merely asserted them. Second, we're talking about a waiver of a constitutional right, First Amendment right and state constitutional right. And I don't think Mr. Mesereau has established either that Mr. Drew understood or had any reason to know when he was in that conversation that there was later going to be a position taken that, by talking to the police officers at all, that he was waiving his constitutional rights.
The Court: Are there any cases on this scenario where a person talks freely to the law enforcement and then claims the shield law in court?
Ms. Sager: I don't know of a case in California, Your Honor, that deals with this particular issue. The Playboy case, which we cited in our papers, does deal with the difference between revealing information publicly and any other information that may be related that's not revealed publicly, and they draw a very strict line. The language of Article I, 2(b), talks about information that is disseminated to the public. Everything else is defined as unpublished information.
The Court: What about -- I didn't read the Playboy case. What was the disclosure in the Playboy case?
Ms. Sager: In the Playboy case, there was an interview published with Cheech and Chong that had some information that they had given during the course of an interview with a Playboy --
The Court: But nobody understood what they said. (Laughter.)
Ms. Sager: Everybody bought it for the article, too. (Laughter.)
Ms. Sager: The argument was made, in subpoenaing all of the information from Playboy, that they had already revealed, in fact, what was said in the interview because they wrote an article about it. And the Court of Appeal in the Second Appellate District said only what is actually revealed in the article disseminated to the public has been revealed, even though there were discussions with Mr. Cheech and Mr. Chong, even though there was some information published.
The Court: Are you familiar with that case, Counsel.
Mr. Mesereau: I am not, Your Honor. But I would -- I haven't completed my examination of him yet, so I don't think -- I think it's rather premature to conclude we can't establish that he didn't know what he was doing or didn't know he was --
The Court: The question, though, is what questions he has to answer right now while you're trying to complete your examination. That's the problem. And --
Mr. Mesereau: Well, Your Honor, if I can't cross-examine him on the issues he wants to testify on direct about, then I don't think he should be allowed to testify as a witness.
Ms. Sager: And, Your Honor, I'd only point out that we did not brief the issue of waiver, because it did not come up, but there's certainly a long line of cases about the waiver of constitutional rights needs to be knowing, not simply a voluntary conversation, but a knowing waiver of your rights. And if Mr. Drew is asked, I expect he could answer the question as to whether he knew and understood that, by any conversation he had with these officers, he was waiving all rights he might have under the California shield law and the Constitution.
Ian Drew: Can I actually say, I was told by the officers and I actually had the understanding that --
The Court: Just a moment.
Ian Drew: All right.
The Court: The way we have to do this is we rely on your attorney to help --
Ian Drew: Okay.
The Court: -- what she wants to bring out. You -- that's the -- you have a very competent attorney, so I think you should --
Ms. Sager: Thank you, Your Honor.
Ian Drew: Thank you.
Ms. Sager: And I just would add, Your Honor, that I don't disagree with Mr. Mesereau about whether Mr. Drew should have to testify at all. I do think getting into cross-examination will lead into areas that are covered by the privilege, which is the reason we put that in our brief. It is a problem when you have reporters called as witnesses, because even if one side tries to limit what they're asking to published information, it is inevitable the cross-examiner will attempt to get into other areas that are not published and that do delve into reporters' constitutionally protected information.
Mr. Mesereau: If I may, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: There is information in the police reports that suggests that it was the conclusion of the investigating sheriffs that Mr. Drew has been a business associate of Mr. Schaffel. The Court already knows, because it's in evidence, that he did conduct an interview of Debbie Rowe at Mr. Schaffel's residence, presumably at the behest of Mr. Schaffel. And there is considerable evidence in the police reports that he has relationships with Konitzer and others. Now, if he's going to be called to testify to what Mr. Konitzer says to him, it would terribly prejudice our ability to defend if we couldn't extensively cross-examine on veracity, on bias, on a motive to make a statement for a particular reason, and also his relationship with these people. If we can't do that, he should be precluded from testifying.
Ms. Sager: And the problem again, Your Honor, is journalists have relationships with a number of people. They may be getting information from a lot of different sources. And the fact that they get information from people that they may later want to publish, that's something that is tremendously protected under the First Amendment. And to allow counsel to cross-examine into what information he may or may not have gotten from people who may have been confidential sources, may have been on-the-record sources but were not ever published, really opens up the privilege widely, and for something that in this case, frankly, is a tangential issue. And there's some question about whether this particular statement has any relevance here, given that I don't believe it's disputed that the family left when they left, why they left. And the circumstances of that, are not within this witness's personal knowledge. So what his impressions were, what he interpreted the remark to mean is not something that would be admissible. So the remark itself that they left is really not all that important compared to the constitutional issues.
The Court: Actually, the substance of what he said is important. That's not a good argument. But --
Mr. Mesereau: If the Court will permit, Your Honor, could we have a few minutes to try to research that case? Because I'm not --
The Court: The Playboy case?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
The Court: Yeah, it wouldn't hurt for me to look at it.
Mr. Zonen: Do we need the actual evidence from that case?
The Court: Let's --
Ms. Sager: As I said, Your Honor, we did not brief the issue of waiver extensively, so we're happy to do that for the Court if that's going to be an issue that's --
The Court: That might not be necessary if each of us have a chance to look at the case. Let's see. The next recess is scheduled for -- I don't want to make the same mistake I made earlier, so why don't we just take our 11:30 recess, and then everybody who doesn't have to read cases can eat. Okay? And we'll come back at the end of our 11:30 recess.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: All right. You wanted time to look at that case?
Mr. Mesereau: I did look at it, Your Honor. It deals primarily with civil matters, obviously. And I think --
The Bailiff: Can you turn your microphone on, please?
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me. I did look at the case, Your Honor, and I believe it clearly deals with civil matters. I think what the Court in our discussion has identified are really three issues to be analyzed. The Court did analyze the first issue, and that had to do with the question of whether this was admissible or not. We did do a little bit of research. I don't know if the Court will allow me to even address that again, or if you would, I would refer the Court to a local case called Saling, which holds that, “Although it has been held that statements which merely narrate past events are not to be deemed to be made in furtherance of a conspiracy..”., and then it does say that the Court has to do a balancing analysis. The cite is 7 Cal.3d at 852. So we would certainly renew our objection to the admission of the statement the witness purportedly wants to testify to. Number two, the question is, does the shield law apply? And if the shield law is deemed by the Court to apply, I believe you still have to then do another balancing test to determine, in a criminal trial, if the defendant, to get a fair trial, has a right to crack what is being shielded. And I would refer the Court to the case of Delaney vs. Superior Court, 50 Cal.3d 785. It's a 1990 case. And you have a holding that, “To overcome a prima facie showing by a newsperson that he is entitled to withhold information under the shield law, a criminal defendant must show a reasonable possibility the information will materially assist his defense. A criminal defendant is not required to show that the information goes to the heart of his case”. Now, I think the prosecutor has basically admitted that he thinks the purported testimony goes to the heart of his conspiracy allegation. He believes it goes to the heart of his conspiracy allegation as it appears in the Indictment and as it appears in the alleged overt acts in the Indictment, according to the prosecutor. The question we have, or the question for the Court is, if he's allowed to bring in this hearsay statement, or I think the Court considered it an admission as well, what are we allowed to do if we want to cross-examine him? And I think it's pretty clear that the witness and his attorney are attempting to preclude any type of examination into his relationships with the people he wants to testify about, relationships which he identified and articulated to two police officers. And I renew my claim that we would be severely hamstrung and prejudiced in our ability to examine him for the truth of what he is saying and his motives for saying what he's saying if we couldn't go into that. So where we are right now, Your Honor, is, I think there's an argument that it's shielded based on the case the Court read, but there is a far stronger argument that the defense must go into that information if the witness is allowed to testify. So perhaps the better solution, weighing all of these issues, is disqualify him from testifying, and then there is no argument that the defendant is being unfairly hamstrung in his ability to confront and cross-examine. And I don't think -- one thing I will say to the Court, in his interview to the police, it appears as if he's giving all of the information. As I understand, a lot of these cases dealing with the shield law, they have to deal with information gathered by the reporter that the reporter doesn't want to disclose. Here, you've got police interviews where basically the police appear to be saying nothing, giving him no information at all, and he is voluntarily allowing himself to be interviewed, near his place of business, about Schaffel, about Konitzer, et cetera, about the Arvizos.
The Court: But, see, that's the material he's gathered. It's not -- he wasn't gathering from the police, or if he tried, he apparently failed. He was -- he had already gathered his information, and he was telling the police what he'd gathered.
Mr. Mesereau: Uh-huh.
The Court: And --
Mr. Mesereau: But it does involve more than that, Your Honor. He admitted to the police working out of Schaffel's home for weeks, for example. Things like that are part of that interview and are part of the information his lawyer wants to shield. And it would just -- it would just eviscerate our ability to probe and test for credibility on cross-examination if we couldn't go into those relationships and that information.
The Court: Well, under Delaney, you have to show -- the defense has the burden of showing that the information, the unpublished information that he has, would materially assist the defense. And --
Mr. Mesereau: As I just said, Your Honor, I believe the holding is just if we show a reasonable possibility it will help us to assist the trier of fact in determining whether this witness should be believed or whether this witness has a motive to lie or a motive to gain financially by appearing in this trial, by saying what he's saying, given his past associations, his past admissions and statements to various people. If we can't go into that, we are severely prejudiced.
The Court: Well, what is the information that you claim that he has that would materially assist the defense? And it says you must make a specific showing that the nondisclosure would create a substantial probability of injury to the defendant's right to a fair trial. What is that information that you think is that valuable?
Mr. Mesereau: His relationships with Konitzer; when he met him; how many times he spoke to him. Did he have any financial connection with Konitzer? To his knowledge, was Konitzer involved with Schaffel when he was involved with Schaffel? What business relationship or financial relationships did he have with these two people? Why was he trying to get information from them? What did he intend to do with the information? When did he last talk to them? Did he, in fact, talk to the police voluntarily and give information to try and be part of this case, because he is a journalist and he can profit that way? I mean, there are lots of questions that I would want to go into about his relationship --
The Court: There's lots of questions, but the -- what is the information you would get that would -- it's not the questions that prove the point. It's the answers.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. Yes. Well --
The Court: So what are you offering -- what are you proffering to me in the way of information he has? Not questions you have.
Mr. Mesereau: He's had a falling-out with Schaffel, who he had a business relationship with. He worked out of his house for three weeks. He saw a contract at Schaffel's saying Schaffel was going make millions of dollars. He was not allowed to participate in that. He had a falling-out with Konitzer. Is he now trying to basically assist the prosecution in incriminating Konitzer? He has a lot of relationships with these two characters that I would think we have to be able to go into to show his motive to lie.
The Court: You're making an offer of proof that those facts are -- if he were forced to testify, he would say that he had not been able to enter into multi-million dollar deals with them, et cetera, et cetera?
Mr. Mesereau: Well, he may deny it. But if he does, I would explore it further and show he's not telling the truth.
The Court: Okay. Well, what I want to know is what you know he has to say, not what you suspect from your questions.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, Your Honor, I've never interviewed him.
The Court: You have the police interview.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, I do.
The Court: That would be of some assistance, I would think.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor. He worked out of Schaffel's residence for approximately three weeks. He learned that Schaffel was trying to enter into a contract with FOX for $7.5 million regarding the Rowe interview. He conducted the Rowe interview. He told the police the Rowe interview was not scripted. He apparently didn't make any money off of the Rowe interview and apparently wanted to. He had -- he met Konitzer, who was also involved in the Rowe interview. He had a relationship with Konitzer. They apparently talked on a number of occasions. He was in Florida with these individuals.
The Court: I think what we should do is -- you know, some of those things may not be subject to the shield law. Some may. The District Attorney has finished his examination. I've made the ruling, which I'm not changing, on the state of mind that -- so now the question arises under Delaney. So, in order to find out where we really are under Delaney, I think you have to ask the witness some questions, and we have to see which ones he answered and which ones he claims are unpublished and he has a privilege, and I'll have to look at the case from that standpoint.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Ms. Sager: And the only thing I would like to add, Your Honor, is under the Delaney test, the test that --
The Court: You need to --
Ms. Sager: I'm sorry, Your Honor. I'm not used to using these microphones. Under the Delaney test, it's not only the threshold test, which is what Mr. Mesereau presented, of whether the information sought is reasonably likely to materially assist the defense. That's simply the threshold. Assume he gets past that. Then the Court engages in a balancing of all the other factors in Delaney. It's not simply enough that he meet that one test.
The Court: That's right. Then we look to see the balance, I agree. So you may question.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Drew, do you know someone named Marc Schaffel?
Ian Drew: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: You did?
Ian Drew: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first meet Marc Schaffel?
Ms. Sager: Your Honor, I'd object to the extent that reveals unpublished information. And also point out, Your Honor, that really has very little relevance to the one statement that Mr. Drew has been asked about by the prosecution that was published. You're now talking about an entirely different individual, not even the individual that he has spoken to that he talked about in his interview.
Mr. Mesereau: With all due respect to counsel, that's not true, Your Honor. I will link the relationship he has with Schaffel and Konitzer to the impeachment I'm trying to demonstrate. But I could ask the questions on Konitzer, and I'll see if he's going to assert the privilege to those. Maybe that would narrow it. Shall I do that, Your Honor?
The Court: Let me think. He's already testified that the -- that he was working for Konitzer when he did the interview, right?
Ms. Sager: Actually, I don't believe that's correct. I believe he testified he was working for a magazine and the interview was set up through Mr. Konitzer and Mr. Schaffel, not that he was working for them. And in fact, I think he testified -- and counsel will correct me if I'm wrong. I believe he was asked was he paid anything by them, and he said no. Nor was he working for Mr. Jackson at any point.
The Court: All right. For purposes of where we are in the hearing, I'll sustain the shield objection on that question.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know someone named Ronald Konitzer?
Ian Drew: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long have you known Ronald Konitzer?
Ms. Sager: Same objection, Your Honor, to the extent that that's not been published, the extent of the length of their relationship or knowledge. Simply the fact that he knows him has been published.
The Court: Well, I think I need you to be more clear in your objection. You're saying “to the extent that that has not been published”. I mean, you have to make a claim that that's not been published; that, “Your Honor, that has not been published”, so I know that. I don't really know that, the way you're stating it.
Ms. Sager: I apologize, Your Honor, and the only reason I'm couching it the way I am is because Mr. Mesereau seems to believe that some things are publications which I don't agree with and the Court hasn't ruled on. There is an interview that does not contain the information that Mr. Mesereau is asking about and that's the publication that we're looking at. That information is not published, as far as I'm aware.
The Court: Well, I don't think you can limit it to that interview. I mean, if he's published it anywhere, in any magazine, or any news, or T.V., or -- you know, the definition really doesn't even involve media. If it's -- I guess if it's dissemination to the public, he could do it personally walking around the mall over there. So we have to -- when you claim he's being asked to reveal something that he hasn't published, it has to be he hasn't published it. Not that he didn't talk about it in the interview with the -- which interview are we talking about?
Ms. Sager: The Court TV interview, Your Honor.
The Court: The Court TV interview that he was interviewed on. That is not the only place that he could have published. He may have published it nowhere else, but we need to be clear. We aren't limiting this to that.
Ms. Sager: I understand, Your Honor. And so my objection is that Mr. Mesereau is calling for information which is unpublished within the meaning of the shield law.
The Court: All right. For purposes of this hearing right now at this point, just to see where we're going, I will sustain the claim under the shield law.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first meet Ronald Konitzer?
Ms. Sager: Same objection, Your Honor. That's unpublished information.
The Court: All right. For purposes of this hearing right now, I'll sustain that claim under the shield law.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you first meet Ronald Konitzer?
Ms. Sager: Same objection, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. And I'll make the same ruling for purposes of this hearing.
Mr. Mesereau: When you first met Ronald Konitzer, who else was present?
Ms. Sager: Same objection, Your Honor.
The Court: I'll sustain the objection under the shield law.
Mr. Mesereau: When you first met Ronald Konitzer, in your mind, what was the purpose of the meeting?
Ms. Sager: Same objection, Your Honor. Also that Mr. Drew's state of mind is not at issue here.
Mr. Mesereau: I think it is on cross, Your Honor.
The Court: I'll sustain it under the shield law.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times have you met with Ronald Konitzer?
Ms. Sager: Same objection, Your Honor, as to unpublished information.
The Court: I'll sustain the objection under the shield law.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever discussed Michael Jackson with Ronald Konitzer?
Ms. Sager: And I would object to the extent that it seeks information that has not been published.
The Court: That's an insufficient objection. I'll overrule it.
Ms. Sager: I understand, and the only reason I'm couching it that way is the question, as phrased, is ambiguous. But I'll object to the question as calling for information that is not published.
The Court: All right. I'll sustain that under the shield law for this hearing.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever had a discussion with Ronald Konitzer about the possibility of interviewing the Arvizo family?
Ian Drew: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When did that discussion take place?
Ian Drew: It took place the week after the Debbie Rowe interview.
Mr. Mesereau: When was the Debbie Rowe interview?
Ian Drew: I believe, from my recollection, it was March of 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you at the Debbie Rowe interview?
Ian Drew: Yes, I did the Debbie Rowe interview.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you the person who asked Debbie Rowe questions in that interview?
Ian Drew: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You've told the police that interview was not scripted, correct?
Ms. Sager: Your Honor, and I'd again object that this is not published information.
Mr. Zonen: And I would also interject an objection that it exceeds the scope of the direct examination.
The Bailiff: You guys have to use the microphone.
Mr. Zonen: I would object that it exceeds the scope of the direct examination.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Was the Debbie Rowe interview scripted?
Ms. Sager: Same --
Mr. Zonen: Objection; exceeds the scope of the direct examination.
Ms. Sager: Also unpublished, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained on both grounds.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Ronald Konitzer at the Debbie Rowe interview?
Ms. Sager: Objection, Your Honor. Calls for unpublished information.
The Court: Sustained under the shield law.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you said, in response to the prosecutor's questions, that Mr. Konitzer referred to the Arvizo family leaving Neverland Ranch, right?
Ian Drew: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And your first response to the prosecutor's question was that Konitzer told you that they had disappeared from Neverland Ranch, correct?
Ian Drew: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: After being further asked questions by the prosecutor, you said that Konitzer had used the word “escape”, right?
Ian Drew: I said I believed he had used the word “escape”. I remembered it.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't use the word “escape” when you first responded to the prosecutor's question about what Mr. Konitzer had said, right?
Ian Drew: I think I did. I think it was all within the same sentence, from my recollection.
Mr. Mesereau: You said “disappear”, did you not?
Ian Drew: That was part of it, too.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, how long did your discussion with Konitzer take place on that particular occasion?
Ms. Sager: Objection, Your Honor. Calls for unpublished information.
The Court: All right. Sustained under the shield law.
Mr. Mesereau: Were other things said by Mr. Konitzer to you on the occasion when you claim he made that statement?
Ms. Sager: Same objection, Your Honor. Calls for unpublished information.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: How long did that discussion last?
Ms. Sager: Same objection, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you say something to Mr. Konitzer in that discussion?
Ms. Sager: And I'll object, Your Honor, to the extent that it calls for information that has not been published. It was one word, I believe, Mr. Drew has published, which I'll let him answer.
The Court: All right. Answer the one, the word, following your attorney's instructions.
Ms. Sager: If you recall.
Ian Drew: I don't. I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did the discussion take place?
Ms. Sager: Same objection, Your Honor. Calls for unpublished information.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Who else was there with you and Konitzer?
Ms. Sager: Same objection, Your Honor. Also assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Under the shield law objection, I'll sustain the objection.
Mr. Mesereau: Was anyone else there with you and Mr. Konitzer?
Ms. Sager: Calls for unpublished information, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you arrange for the discussion where you claim Mr. Konitzer made that statement?
Ms. Sager: I believe it's vague, Your Honor, but it's information that is published, so I'll let the witness answer, if he recalls.
Ian Drew: Yes, I was trying to get an interview, so I think I -- I think I made the phone call, because I'm pretty dogged about that usually.
Mr. Mesereau: Where were you when you made the phone call?
Ms. Sager: Calls for unpublished information, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you call Konitzer's number?
Ms. Sager: Same objection, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, I believe at this point it's pretty clear I wouldn't be able to cross-examine the witness on any of this; we would be prejudiced. And I believe, under the Delaney case, the witness should be disqualified from testifying. I'm not being allowed to cross-examine on anything regarding the bona fides of what he said and in what context it was said, who was there, where it took place. And again, I would refer the Court to the holding in the Delaney case. All we have to show is a reasonable possibility the information will materially assist the defense. And the material assistance would be in examining the veracity, the motives, the bias of this witness.
Ms. Sager: And, Your Honor, I believe under the Foss case, that disqualification of the witness is the appropriate measure to take rather than allowing any counsel to get into information that clearly is protected by the shield law, so that even published information should not be presented if then, to allow cross-examination, would delve into constitutionally protected information.
The Court: Mr. Drew?
Ian Drew: Uh-huh.
The Court: I'm looking at the testimony you've already given. What I want to do is read to you what you said about the -- just that one sentence is all we're talking about. I want to read to you that sentence, and I want to ask you a couple of questions about why you said that sentence.
Ian Drew: Okay.
The Court: But to do that, I want to read it to you, so I'm going to ask you to listen to this: The question by Mr. Zonen was, “What specifically did he say with regard to the disappearance of this family? “Would it be helpful if the witness was given a transcript of the television program? We can do that”. I say something, and then Mr. Zonen says something. And then Mr. Zonen says, “Well”, as a question mark, and you say, “It's a simple enough question, I think. I was told that they had disappeared, that they couldn't keep them there anymore”. There's some objections. And you say, “And I believe the word 'escaped' was used. But again, I don't -- I can't say word for word. But from the best of my recollection, yes, I heard the word 'escape'”. First of all, what you've already answered, does that accurately reflect your recollection of that conversation?
Ian Drew: Uh-huh. Yes.
The Court: What is your -- if you can answer this, what is the failure of your recollection about the word “escaped”?
Ian Drew: No, it's to the best of my recollection. When I was talking to Mr. Konitzer, I was simply trying to get -- I was on a deadline trying to get an article done, so I wasn't paying attention word for word, knowing that in a trial two years later I would have to remember each part of it. I remember the tone of his conversation more than I remember even the exact words.
The Court: Okay. Thanks. Mr. Mesereau, is there anything in the police reports that you have that you would like to represent to me --
Mr. Mesereau: First of all, Your Honor, as the Court knows, in many of my prior cross-examinations of witnesses, I have asked them when they -- excuse me, if they ever met with any representative of the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department; who initiated the meeting; what was said; who said what; did the sheriffs say anything to you about the case? And the reasons are obvious. We want to establish if, in fact, the prosecution or its agents have tried to infect any witness with information of a specific nature or give them a perspective on the case or try and indoctrinate them in some way. We also want to establish if the witnesses have said anything to the sheriffs which suggests a desire to be involved in this case or a desire to --
The Court: I think you didn't let me finish my question.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh. I'm sorry. Pardon me.
The Court: The question I wanted to ask, is there anything in the police reports that he said in the interview with the sheriff's department or any law enforcement people that you want to show me or advise me of? You know, as opposed to the questions that you would ask, any information contained therein that you believe is, you know, material that would --
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor. I mean, first of all --
The Court: -- materially assist your defense if he were to testify to it?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor. There is the business relationship between this witness and Schaffel and Konitzer, as I would like to establish, is that he had a relationship with them. He was involved in their efforts to make money off of Michael Jackson. The --
The Court: That's -- just to be clear now, that's in the police report?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor. He conducted the Debbie Rowe interview. He was working out of Schaffel's residence. He was promised he could interview the Arvizo family. He had a financial interest in working with Schaffel and Konitzer. He then was apparently told, “You're not going to be interviewing the Arvizo family because they left Neverland”. And then the question is, what kind of relationship did he continue to have with them? What money did he expect to make? Who was supposed to pay him for doing all of this? Did he think he was going to be involved in the FOX contract? He did tell the sheriffs that he saw, in fact, a FOX contract at Schaffel's residence during the approximately three-week period of time that he worked out of Mr. Schaffel's residence. And the question would be, why did he look at the contract? How did he know it said $7.5 million from FOX? What interest did he think he had? Has he had a falling-out with Konitzer? When did he last talk to any of these people? He did not obtain this so-called quote in isolation, and he didn't obtain it in a casual, unexpected occurrence or meeting. He obtained it, if he did, within the context of an ongoing business relationship with Konitzer and Schaffel, who the prosecution allege are unindicted co-conspirators. And the motives for coming forward and making this allegation on T.V. and in court are fertile ground for cross-examination where the scope of cross-examination is very broad to show any type of financial motive, financial bias, or a bias to say anything that hurts his former co-business partners, which in fact they were. So we would be severely hamstrung if we could not go into these relationships and these motivations. Now, he told the police that when he interviewed Debbie Rowe, he was working out of Schaffel's residence for approximately three weeks. He said that during that period of time, he saw the FOX contract. He just told the Court that when he got this information from Konitzer, he had a deadline. How did that deadline relate to why he was talking to Konitzer to begin with? What project were they still involved in, if any? And clearly his police interview, which was conducted by him, as I said before, on a voluntary basis, talks about how he met these characters, how he stayed in contact with them, where he called them from, how the interview with the Arvizos he thought he was going to do related to the interview with Debbie Rowe. It's all part of the same package. And, Your Honor, there are tapes where he and Debbie Rowe complain about Schaffel and Konitzer. There is the issue of his falling-out with them. It's all interconnected.
The Court: Okay. Do you want to be heard, Mr. Zonen?
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, the police report in this matter is four pages of text, and I think it would be appropriate for the Court to review it, and I would invite the Court to review it to make the determination as to whether -- would you like me at the podium?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: The Court specifically made the inquiry as to whether or not there's information contained in the police report as might justify extensive cross-examination of this witness with regards to information given by the witness to detectives in the course of that interview. Rather than debate what is and what isn't, it's a very brief report. It's only four pages of large script. And I would ask that the Court read it to make a determination as to whether or not that would assist the Court in its judgment. Once again, the prosecution is offering one sentence in this case. It's a conversation that took place between this witness and another person, one of the unindicted co-conspirators, to the extent this that person said to this witness, “They've left”, and the words of how they left. It's effectively one or two sentences. I do not believe that that warrants and justifies extensive cross-examination on the relationships and interrelationships between each of the five unindicted co-conspirators and this witness and any of the co-conspirators among themselves at any point in history. I also don't believe it justifies an examination into his involvement in the interview with Debbie Rowe, which was an entirely separate interview and separate people involved. As to the question of what he can be cross-examined on in the course of the interview with the -- the “interview” -- the two-sentence conversation with Mr. Konitzer, I think that he can be cross-examined on information that would shed light on what was going on at that time and the accuracy of that statement, and it is a statement that is relatively noncontroversial. It is not the type of thing that a thorough examination of the relationships of these parties would necessarily disprove or as to motivation. And so I believe that until the defense satisfies the burden, which they have, for the purposes of showing that there is information out there, and they're not simply on a fishing expedition, but that there is concrete information that would somehow show that this statement was never made, or, if it was made, had a different meaning, or in fact was a statement that's entirely different from what it was as it's represented by this witness, and I believe that they can do that within the limitations of the Court and within the limitations imposed by the shield law. I have the report to turn over to the Court, if that's permissible.
Mr. Mesereau: If I may, Your Honor, there are other reports as well. There's a number of pretext phone calls where he discusses the same issues identified in that police interview. I suspect Miss Sager is going to say they're privileged, but they do relate to the same facts. They give us a good-faith basis, in addition to what I just told the Court, to inquire into his relationship with Konitzer and Schaffel, and what his expectations were, what happened to the money he thought he was going to get, et cetera. I think the Court would have to look at those as well. There aren't that many of them and I have them with me. I also have transcripts of those pretext phone calls.
The Court: And do both of you agree and stipulate that I can review those reports in conjunction with reaching a decision on this?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Would you provide those to me?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Ms. Sager: Your Honor, we have not been provided with those reports, and for purposes of arguing this motion, it would greatly assist me, if the Court is going to consider them, if we also were allowed to review them.
The Court: Certainly.
Mr. Zonen: I will do so.
The Court: You can step down. There's no sense in sitting there while we're trying to figure this out.
Mr. Zonen: How clean are your copies?
Mr. Mesereau: They're pretty clean.
Mr. Zonen: Do you just have yellow highlights?
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah, but also -- there are transcripts as well.
Mr. Zonen: You don't have material written into them?
Mr. Mesereau: Not really, no.
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: It may take a moment. I'm just trying to staple these reports together, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. I think what I'd like to do, Lieutenant, would it work all right, when I take these back to read, if I declare a recess? And then you can -- so these folks don't have to sit in here? Is that all right? And then we can bring them back in. It looks like I'm going to be a few minutes reading. LIEUTENANT McKINNY: That's fine, Your Honor.
The Court: That would give them five minutes' notice to bring them back into the courtroom, or let them, excuse me, back in the courtroom.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, I might add that this witness's name comes up in other reports dealing with interviews with other individuals and investigations into other individuals. Information regarding this witness was seized at Schaffel's house, for example. So I don't want to suggest that the scope of examination or the good-faith basis for questions about his relationship with these people are purely based on what I'm giving you. There's other stuff, too.
The Court: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach?
The Court: Yes. All right. Then we'll take this recess.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Counsel, would you like to retrieve the police reports?
The Bailiff: I can get them.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. The Court is going to make the following order: That the Court finds that the probative value of the statement offered by Mr. Drew is questionable; that if the statement was introduced into evidence, the statement might lend itself to proving somewhat the conspiracy, but the only value I see of the statement -- the only evidentiary value of the statement would be to prove Konitzer's state of mind, which is not Mr. Jackson's state of mind, and may very well not be appropriate to admit under any circumstances. Because even though it's a co-conspirator's state of mind, it would be unlikely helpful in proving Mr. Jackson's involvement. It wouldn't prove his involvement. In addition to that, there is some real vagueness in the statement as recalled by the witness, since he does not recall exactly what was said, but more the sense of what was said, and isn't sure where the word “escaped” fit in. Considering these items, in balancing under Delaney, the Court does not believe that the shield law is overcome in this case. The shield law then remains in effect. That effectively bars the defense from cross-examination on the statement which I've already determined to have some questionable value. Therefore, the Court finds the only appropriate remedy is to deny the People's request to admit the statement.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, we have no further witnesses for the day.
The Court: What I would like to do is excuse the jury. There's two ways to do that. Probably the cruelest way would be to --
Mr. Zonen: Send the bailiff in there?
The Court: -- file them in here and then tell them. In fact, I don't think I could face them. (Laughter.)
The Court: No, I better face them, though. Let's bring them in.
Ms. Sager: Your Honor, is Mr. Drew excused?
The Court: I'll be a man about this. Yes. You're excused.
Ms. Sager: Thank you.
The Court: It's my custom to not be on the bench when the jury comes in, so I think I'll leave.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: Good afternoon.
The Jury: (In unison) Good afternoon.
The Court: (To counsel) You tell them. (Laughter.)
The Court: Because of rulings that I've made today, we have no further witnesses. I am advised by the District Attorney that they have two days left in their case, Monday and Tuesday, and they will be full days, without delays. So I apologize for keeping you here all day today like this. I didn't anticipate, of course, the length of time that was going to be involved, and I tried very hard not to do that to you. I know how crummy it is to sit back there and not have anything to do and not know what's going on, and it's just one of my things I just don't do. And we have gone through a lot of days without doing that to you, so I'll try to get through a lot more before it happens again. So I'll see you next week. Court's in recess.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 1:25 p.m.
