Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Thursday, May 12, 2005 8:30 a.m.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: Good morning, everyone.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor.
The Court: According to the information I have, you intend to call Mr. Velasco next; is that right?
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor -- whoa. Let me go to this one, Your Honor. I think I just destroyed government property. I'm sorry. We have a few minutes left of this tape. I thought it was four or five. The District Attorney thought maybe there was ten left. Whatever it is, there's not much more. We have the tape, and then Mr. Velasco next, and following that we're seeking to call Mr. LeGrand and Mr. Robinson. That's our proposed procedure. Now, we received something on Mr. Robinson. Mr. Mesereau would respond to Mr. LeGrand. And if the Court permits, I would respond to what was just filed regarding Mr. Robinson.
The Court: Your next witness is Velasco, right?
Mr. Sanger: Velasco. There's no issue with Mr. Velasco. It's going to be very brief.
The Court: Is that correct, District Attorney?
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes, Your Honor. I believe he will be a very brief witness.
The Court: You've worked that out.
Mr. Sanger: I don't think there was ever an issue with regard to Mr. Velasco. You're thinking of Vivanco.
The Court: That's a different person.
Mr. Sanger: That's a different person. We had agreed with I think the thrust of their motion. We filed a response this morning. Did you receive that, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes, it upsets me greatly.
Mr. Sanger: Oh, I'm sorry.
The Court: No.
Mr. Sanger: I'm kind of surprised. I don't know why, which probably makes it even worse. I'm sorry. Okay.
The Court: You just stop and think about it.
Mr. Zonen: We haven't received anything this morning.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. That it's this morning? Okay. I'll have to think about it some more.
The Court: Yes, you better.
Mr. Sanger: Vivanco is not for this morning. We were possibly, depending on what else happens, going to try to call him as early as this afternoon. But I'll have to -- I'll have to look back at the response and see what it is that upset the Court. And I apologize. I honestly don't know. But Velasco is okay. And we have Robinson and LeGrand. Those are the issues I think we have to address, if that's all right.
The Court: All right. Take up the issue on Robinson.
Mr. Sanger: Yes. I think there is a failure to communicate or something. We went back and forth with e-mails. As I pointed out, we had discovered -- I'm talking like Mr. Auchincloss. We had provided in discovery a copy of the report. We have a Bates stamp number. We've shown it to counsel. It was, in fact, turned over -- Was it February?
Ms. Yu: 3rd.
Mr. Sanger: 3rd. It was turned over in a timely fashion. He was, in fact, their witness. He was called before the grand jury and they also have tape-recorded statements of him. Our statement, as I told Mr. Auchincloss, pretty much says that he says the same thing that he said to them and he said under oath. So there's a question of whether it would have to be turned over or not at all, but we did turn it over on February the 3rd. For some reason, they have some handwritten notes that were turned over at the same time, but Mr. Auchincloss said he wasn't able to locate the other. However, it was Bates stamped in the ordinary sequence and it was turned over. So I think we're fine on Robinson.
Mr. Auchincloss: That is correct, Your Honor. We did have discovery of the Robinson report. Our clerks went through the files, the 40,000 pages that have been provided, and did not locate it. I just pointed out -- it was pointed out to me this morning the exact Bates stamp number. I've reviewed our database, and we do have a report on Christian Robinson, which I've just read. We also -- I would just mention that the report does have several material facts or additions that were never mentioned in the transcript of the grand jury and the testimony of the grand jury or in the interviews with the police. So there are some new developments there. So I'm trying to get up to speed on Mr. Robinson right now. If you'd like, I can address Mr. LeGrand's -- the issue concerning Mr. LeGrand. Counsel has just provided me with a LeGrand exhibit book, which I've had no opportunity to look at. I asked Mr. Mesereau if he intended to introduce these exhibits and he said yes, for the most part, he did intend to introduce most of them. Mr. LeGrand. We've received hundreds and hundreds of pages of legal documents, many of them similar to what appears in this binder, but we have no idea where they came from, whether they represent complete files, partial files. Basic authentication issues. But I don't think those are of any particularly great moment. We also know that Mr. LeGrand has had communications, or it appears from these very documents that he's had communication with Mr. Cochran and Mr. Geragos, former counsel, and yet there are no reports. So if counsel insists that they have never talked to Mr. LeGrand, we'd at least be entitled to find out how they obtained these documents and the chain of custody of them. He's going to be a complicated witness. And it will probably take more than a day to cover his testimony. I anticipate that we'll have him on cross for quite some period of time given the defense exhibits. I anticipate the same from the defendant, so we are not prepared to go forward with Mr. LeGrand today.
The Court: Mr. Mesereau?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, I produced in December every document involving Mr. LeGrand that was in my possession. We had decided in December to waive the attorney-client privilege. Mr. Auchincloss has had all of these documents, including the ones in the binder, since December. He has known that we are waiving the privilege since December. My approach, and I think it was the correct one, was that once we waived the privilege, all of Mr. LeGrand's correspondence, drafts, memorandum, documents in his possession that had been cc'd to him were statements, in effect. So I turned them over to the prosecution as what I believe were witness statements. They have more witness statements from this particular witness than any witness that's going to appear in the case. And my examination of Mr. LeGrand is going to not differ or vary from what is contained in all of those witness statements. So I am rather shocked at the prosecutor's position, because he's had these things since last December, and he got probably ten binders' worth of documents. The issues they cover are very clear. Everything from the Bashir litigation, to Dieter and Konitzer, to financial issues. In fact, as the Court may recall, when Mr. Auchincloss put an expert on the stand to deal with financial issues, some of the documents Mr. Auchincloss had him review and refer to were David LeGrand documents, so how he can possibly say he's not prepared, I don't understand. Every document in this binder that he has, he has had since last December. And as I say, I think if you take the position that these are all witness statements, he has more witness statements than any other witness in the case. There's nothing to surprise him about. In fact, my cross-examination of his financial expert had to do with LeGrand documents that Mr. Auchincloss acknowledged he had. So I don't see -- after we decided to waive the privilege, everything was given to him, or given to the prosecution.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Auchincloss: Just one remark. We're entitled to more than just exhibits. We're entitled to statements. If they have talked to Mr. LeGrand, we're entitled to discovery of what he said to the defense, and what he provided them, even in the transference of these documents. So to simply state that they can dump this box full of documents in our lap and give us no indication of where they came from or how they were produced or no indication of what they intend to adduce during the testimony of Mr. LeGrand, that we're just supposed to divine what his testimony will be from his complete files, is certainly not in accord with the discovery statutes. Particularly when they've had communications with him. Those communications are statements. They have to be documented, they have to be turned over, and that hasn't happened.
The Court: Mr. Mesereau?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. I have not discussed his testimony with him. I have had discussions about flight arrangements. And he's prepared to testify to that. Since I decided to waive the privilege, we've given him everything we had. And as I say, he has more witness statements than with anybody. And I don't think we're required to sit down with the prosecutors and fulfill their every desire to go through every document and tell them where they came from. The reality is virtually every document has a law firm name on it or an indication of where it came from, and the date, and the signature. I don't understand the objection.
The Court: All right. We'll go forward with the testimony. And based on that representation, if it appears during the course of the testimony that that's not accurate, we'll take it up then again. All right. We'll bring in the jury now.
Mr. Sanger: Before you do that, can we just approach on one procedural matter? Do you want -- do you want me to do it? Okay. One procedural matter?
The Court: All right. Do you want to ask someone to come up, Mr. Sneddon?
Mr. Sneddon: I'm coming. (Discussion held off the record at sidebar.)
The Court: All right. We'll have the jury come in.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: Good morning.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
The Court: I hear you're getting special treats this week.
A Juror: Yes.
The Court: Pretty good. Pretty good. All right. Counsel, you ready to proceed?
Mr. Sanger: Yes. I always say that with some trepidation when I'm going to push a button here, but, I believe we left off at Exhibit 5009-C. And we left off at counter 58:27, so I have it at 58:20. So there will be a repeat of seven seconds, and then we should finish the tape.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sanger: If I may. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, Defendant's Exhibit 5009-C, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Sanger: That is the end.
The Court: All right. Call your next witness.
Mr. Sanger: Yes, Your Honor. We'll call Carlos Velasco, if we may, please. While he's getting there, I'll give this to the clerk. More precisely is, returning Exhibit 5009 to the clerk.
The Court: You may remain standing. Face the clerk. Raise your right hand.
Message: CARLOS VELASCO Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Carlos Velasco: Yes.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Carlos Velasco: Carlos Velasco. Last name, V-e-l-a-s-c-o.
The Court: Can't hear him.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Okay, Mr. Velasco. Oh. It's real important to sit very close to the microphone. It's just the way it is in this courtroom. It's very hard to do. Every witness has a problem doing that.
Carlos Velasco: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Mr. Velasco, do you know the gentleman seated right there?
Carlos Velasco: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sanger: Who is that?
Carlos Velasco: Michael Jackson.
Mr. Sanger: How do you know Michael Jackson?
Carlos Velasco: My father worked for him for a long period of time. Still works for him. And I used to go to Family Day once a year.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Bailiff Cortez: I'm sorry, sir. You're going to have --
Mr. Sanger: You have a soft voice. You have to speak even louder and right in the microphone, okay? So your father -- you say your father worked for Mr. Jackson?
Carlos Velasco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you have occasion to go to Neverland Ranch yourself?
Carlos Velasco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And on what occasions did you go to Neverland Ranch?
Carlos Velasco: Family Day. I worked there twice. And that's basically it.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So I heard you say “Family Day”, and we've heard about that. That's where the employees can invite family members; is that right?
Carlos Velasco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And so you went, spent the day, had a good time?
Carlos Velasco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: About how many times did you do that?
Carlos Velasco: Around 20.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And did I hear you say you were employed there?
Carlos Velasco: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: You just have to really speak up a little more. I know it's hard. And what did you do while you were employed there?
Carlos Velasco: I did groundskeeping.
Mr. Sanger: And roughly when was that that you were employed there?
Carlos Velasco: About '97, '98. 1998.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. During the course of the time that you were employed at Neverland Ranch -- let me withdraw that. During the course of the time that you had contact with Neverland Ranch, as a guest, did you have occasion to meet a young man named Jason Francia?
Carlos Velasco: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: Did you meet him at the ranch for the first time or did you meet him someplace else?
Carlos Velasco: It was at the ranch.
Mr. Sanger: And on how many occasions did you see Jason Francia at the ranch?
Carlos Velasco: Quite a few. I mean, especially during Family Day. Probably about four times.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And did you also get to know Jason Francia outside of Neverland?
Carlos Velasco: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: And how was that?
Carlos Velasco: Went to high school together.
Mr. Sanger: What high school was that?
Carlos Velasco: Santa Maria High School.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, during the time that you spent with Jason Francia at the ranch, did you ever see Mr. Jackson there at the same time that you and Jason were there?
Carlos Velasco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you ever see Mr. Jackson interact with Jason Francia in any inappropriate way whatsoever?
Carlos Velasco: No.
Mr. Sanger: What kind of a relationship did Mr. Francia seem to have -- and at that time I guess he was younger, but we'll call him “Jason”. What kind of relationship did Jason have with Mr. Jackson, as far as you could tell?
Carlos Velasco: Just a normal one. I mean --
Mr. Sanger: What kind of relationship did you have with Mr. Jackson?
Carlos Velasco: Just a normal one.
Mr. Sanger: So was your relationship any different, as far as you could tell, from that of Mr. Francia?
Carlos Velasco: No, it wasn't.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, during the time you were with Mr. Francia at the ranch and thereafter throughout high school in Santa Maria, did you ever hear Mr. Francia mention in any way anything inappropriate happening with Mr. Jackson?
Carlos Velasco: No.
Mr. Sanger: And during high school, did you -- did you consider yourself friends with Jason?
Carlos Velasco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you hang around with the same circle of friends?
Carlos Velasco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. No further questions.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Velasco, have you ever slept with Mr. Jackson?
Carlos Velasco: No, I haven't.
Mr. Auchincloss: Has that ever occurred to you, to sleep with Mr. Jackson?
Carlos Velasco: Never.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever want to sleep with Mr. Jackson?
Carlos Velasco: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you believe child molest victims normally broadcast the fact that they're victims to their high school peers?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Beyond the scope of direct and no foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Your testimony is that you never heard that Jason Francia -- or Jason Francia never told you that he was molested by Mr. Jackson?
Carlos Velasco: Correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: You have seen Mr. Jackson interact with Jason Francia, true?
Carlos Velasco: Well, he talked to all of us. It wasn't just specifically him.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. My question was, have you seen Jason Francia interact with Michael Jackson?
Carlos Velasco: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Jason Francia was friend of Mr. Jackson's, true?
Carlos Velasco: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And do you have any idea whatsoever whether Jason Francia was molested by Michael Jackson?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Calls for an opinion without foundation; beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Carlos Velasco: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: You have no idea?
Carlos Velasco: (Shakes head from side to side.)
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you. No further questions.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did you see or hear anything that suggested to you in any way that Jason Francia was molested by Michael Jackson?
Carlos Velasco: Never.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you. No further questions.
Mr. Auchincloss: No questions.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down. Call your next witness.
Mr. Mesereau: The defense is going to call David LeGrand, Your Honor. While we're getting ready, I have an exhibit book for the Court as well as the witness. If I may approach.
The Court: You may. Are these marked?
Mr. Mesereau: They are not.
The Court: How are you going to proceed?
Mr. Mesereau: I was going to take the witness through the exhibits and then mark them appropriately as the Court would like to do.
The Court: You'll need to mark them when you show him the exhibits so that the record accurately reflects what you're showing.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: Come forward, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Pardon me.
The Court: When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing. Face the clerk here and raise your right hand.
Message: DAVID G. LEGRAND Having been sworn, testified as follows:
David LeGrand: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
David LeGrand: My name is David G. LeGrand. It's L-e, capital G-r-a-n-d.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning, Mr. LeGrand.
David LeGrand: Good morning.
Mr. Mesereau: You are an attorney, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you practice in Las Vegas, Nevada, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: At one point you were an attorney for Michael Jackson, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And for the record, Mr. Jackson is the fellow sitting at counsel table, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you begin representing Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: I think it was late January 2002, I believe.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when did you cease representing Mr. Jackson, just approximately?
David LeGrand: Well, my services were terminated on about March 28th of that year. I think it's '02. I've lost track of time. It may have been '03. I think it was '03, actually. And then I was re-engaged for one specific case that I continued to manage on his behalf until around September of '04.
Mr. Mesereau: And you still are a practicing attorney, right?
David LeGrand: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you please give a summary of your educational background?
David LeGrand: I'm a -- I have a bachelor of arts degree from Duke University and a JD from the Ohio State University College of Law.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you please just summarize your career as an attorney?
David LeGrand: Following graduation from law school, I was employed at the Ohio Division of Securities as an enforcement attorney for the State of Ohio Department of Commerce, Division of Securities, for about two years. And then for about a year I was counsel to the commissioner of the Ohio Division of Securities. I subsequently entered private practice in 1982.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you said you were an enforcement attorney. Would you please explain what that means?
David LeGrand: I was responsible for investigating complaints with regards to violations of state securities law and preparing appropriate recommendations to the Attorney General for civil and/or criminal action. Criminal action would be through a state prosecutor.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, were you in effect a prosecutor yourself?
David LeGrand: Actually, I -- for a time I was sworn as an assistant county prosecutor in Franklin County, Ohio, working with the white-collar crime division.
Mr. Mesereau: What kind of cases were you prosecuting in -- when you had that job?
David LeGrand: Securities fraud.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what is securities fraud?
David LeGrand: Securities fraud is -- a typical example would be where money is raised by promoters for investments where the disclosures by the promoters are less than accurate. You know, deceptive, fraudulent misrepresentations for the purpose of obtaining money from others.
Mr. Mesereau: You're talking about prosecuting primarily financial-related crimes, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you indicated you did some investigating work in one of the prosecuting offices; is that true?
David LeGrand: Well, my role as an enforcement attorney was to do investigatory work. And then typically we would hand the case over to the Attorney General's Office for civil action or a county prosecutor for criminal action. And then being sworn as an assistant county prosecutor, I was able to assist the prosecutor's office in making the grand jury presentations.
Mr. Mesereau: What -- could you give some examples of some of the cases you were involved in prosecuting?
David LeGrand: The most significant case I was involved in involved oil and gas promotion, and we obtained a plea on six felony counts of misrepresentations in connection with the sale of securities. I was also involved in a case involving some art tax shelters. And I worked with a federal task force on a coal mine fraud out of West Virginia, where there were victims in Ohio.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long were you a prosecuting attorney?
David LeGrand: Well, I was sworn as an assistant county prosecutor in Franklin County I believe for about a year. It might have been a year and a half. I'm really not sure today. It's been, you know, more than 20 years ago.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long were you associated with any prosecuting office?
David LeGrand: It would have been the same time period.
Mr. Mesereau: After you were a prosecutor prosecuting financial-related crimes, what did you do next?
David LeGrand: I entered private practice in 1982.
Mr. Mesereau: And have you been in private practice ever since?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When you were representing Michael Jackson, were you associated with any law firm?
David LeGrand: Yes. I was with the firm of Hale Lane Peek Dennison and Howard in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you have a specialty?
David LeGrand: We don't use the term “specialty”. The Nevada Supreme Court frowns upon that type of terminology. My practice emphasizes corporate and transactional work. But I don't claim to be a specialist.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And when you were representing Mr. Jackson, was the work you did primarily corporate and transactional work?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you begin to represent Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: I was introduced to Mr. Jackson through a gentleman named Ronald Konitzer.
Mr. Mesereau: Had you known Mr. Konitzer for some time?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you meet Mr. Konitzer, approximately?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure. It was sometime in the early to mid-1990s.
Mr. Mesereau: And had you done any legal work for him?
David LeGrand: Yes. I represented a company he was associated with.
Mr. Mesereau: And which company was that?
David LeGrand: Hi-Tec America, I think was the name.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long did you represent Hi-Tec America?
David LeGrand: You know, it was a couple of years off and on. And then the -- I really hadn't heard from Ronald for a couple of years. We might have exchanged Christmas cards, but I wasn't actively providing legal service to him in -- you know, when he contacted me, I think it was in 2002.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did you represent Mr. Jackson personally?
David LeGrand: Eventually, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you mean by that?
David LeGrand: Well, the engagement with Mr. Jackson was for -- with him, yes, in January, I think it was January '03.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you represent any companies associated with Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Which companies were they?
David LeGrand: Well, there was MJJ Productions. I believe there's a company associated with the ranch. There's another company that I can't remember the name that has to do with some of his creative work. I really don't remember the names of all the companies, but there were two -- you know, three or four.
Mr. Mesereau: And at the time you were representing Mr. Jackson and companies associated with Mr. Jackson, did you consider yourself his primary transactional attorney?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Why is that?
David LeGrand: At the time I was engaged, part of the conversation and plan was to basically bring in a new team to represent Mr. Jackson. Part of that process involved terminating some of the representation of people that had been providing legal service to him and bringing, you know, fresh blood to the representation.
Mr. Mesereau: And you mentioned January of 2003. Was that the approximate time this activity was going on?
David LeGrand: Well, that's when it began. I mean, it -- this process took time.
Mr. Mesereau: So approximately January of 2003 efforts were made to bring in a new team to represent Mr. Jackson; is that what you're saying?
David LeGrand: Yes. A new set of lawyers, accountants and professionals.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, was this your idea?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Whose idea was it?
David LeGrand: It was communicated to me by --
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Hearsay; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: It was communicated to me by both Mr. Konitzer and by Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you began to bring in a new team to represent Mr. Jackson, what is the first thing you did?
David LeGrand: The initial focus was to assemble a group of lawyers to respond to the pending presentation of the Martin Bashir video in the UK. I spoke to a number of different lawyers, including partners in my firm, and within, oh, a day or two, we -- I had Mr. Jackson on a teleconference with lawyers in the United Kingdom, as well as the United States, to discuss the possibilities of responding to the pending production in the UK by Martin Bashir and Granada.
Mr. Mesereau: What was the concern about the Bashir documentary, as far as you were concerned?
David LeGrand: That no one, from Mr. Jackson's perspective, had been given the opportunity to review the final edited production work. That was a concern. We had no idea what was going to be presented in the UK. There were clips that were being broadcast as promotion, but the substance of the program was an unknown.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, how did you become aware of these clips that were being used to promote the documentary?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure today. There were people -- friends of Michael in the UK, I'm sure, who saw them. I really don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, are you saying that there was a concern about what was going to be in the Bashir documentary before it actually aired?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
David LeGrand: And there was news -- I remember there was news press in the United States about these clips and there was a lot of buzz being generated nationally and internationally about this.
Mr. Mesereau: This is still in January of 2003; is that right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what did you see your job as being when it came to responding to these promotional clips? What exactly were you trying to do?
David LeGrand: Well, my -- first, you know, as an attorney seeking to represent my client, I engaged professionals with knowledge of, you know, copyright law, contract law, to analyze the agreements and to try to put together a plan of action and alternatives, try to identify the costs associated with taking action, trying to figure out who would be appropriate to contact at Granada to discuss the concerns, and try to take positive action on behalf of Mr. Jackson and his family.
Mr. Mesereau: And was there a concern that the promotional clips indicated that there was going to be a documentary before Mr. Jackson or anyone associated with Mr. Jackson had a chance to look at it?
David LeGrand: Yes. That was clearly a concern.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What did you do in response?
David LeGrand: Well, I worked with the Paul Hastings law firm out of Los Angeles, and their firm in the UK. We engaged a barrister, a noted barrister in the UK, Sir Andrew Hochhousler I believe is his name. We engaged a solicitor in the UK. We had several attorneys here in the U.S., Mr. Genga from the Paul Hastings firm, Mr. Joss from the Paul Hastings firm. We reviewed what documents -- the few -- very few documents that existed with respect to Mr. Jackson and Mr. Bashir. We discussed the events that led to the filming with Mr. Jackson. We ultimately decided upon a course of action that resulted in a lawsuit being filed in the UK against Granada and Mr. Bashir on behalf of Mr. Jackson. And in connection with that lawsuit, Granada entered into a court order agreeing to a number of terms that we had sought that -- you know, that group of lawyers had sought, including that there would be no DVDs produced of the televisual production. There would be no VHS. That they would not use the outtakes to create a second program. I mean, these sorts of things were negotiated over a period of weeks and ultimately agreed to and put into the form of a court order in the United Kingdom.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you mentioned someone named Granada. Who is that?
David LeGrand: The only person that I recall associated with Granada was Martin Bashir, and I'm not sure if he was an employee or independent contractor at that time.
Mr. Mesereau: Maybe my question was poor. What is Granada?
David LeGrand: Oh. My understanding, Granada is a very large broadcasting company. It's like an ABC or CBS, in the UK. They own and generate television productions in both UK and I believe in, you know, Europe.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, the lawsuit was filed in England; is that correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And it was filed on behalf of Mr. Jackson, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you mentioned that there were very few documents involving the Bashir documentary. What do you mean?
David LeGrand: The only -- there were only two pieces of paper that Mr. Jackson provided to the lawyers with respect to the Martin Bashir broadcast. They were basically two separate pieces of paper signed at two different times, consisting of a little over a paragraph on each piece of paper, and that apparently represented the total contractual arrangement with respect to the production of the Bashir/Granada video.
Mr. Mesereau: Did it appear that Mr. Jackson had gotten any legal advice before he entered into this project with Bashir?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Speculation; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that Mr. Jackson had had any legal representation when he entered into any arrangement with Mr. Bashir?
Mr. Auchincloss: Same objection.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether or not, before Mr. Jackson did the Bashir documentary, any lawyer had represented him?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Same -- same objection.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer that “yes” or “no”. If you can't answer that “yes” or “no”, tell me.
David LeGrand: It's difficult to answer “yes” or “no”, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Then I'll sustain the objection to the question.
Mr. Mesereau: Had you yourself documented any transactions involving television documentaries in your career before representing Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have any understanding of what kind of documents one would typically execute and sign before doing a T.V. documentary at that time?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was your understanding about the typical types of documents one executes before doing a television documentary?
David LeGrand: There are typically fairly extensive agreements that would document ownership of copyright, licensing, you know, national, international royalties, you know, method -- there's just a host of issues that would typically be addressed with a persona of the magnitude of Mr. Jackson and a production of this type.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you began to represent Mr. Jackson and when you started looking into the circumstances surrounding the Bashir documentary, did you see any of those documents you just described?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you form an opinion about the kinds of documents Mr. Jackson had signed before he did the Bashir documentary?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; calls for a conclusion.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: The two documents reflecting Mr. Jackson's agreement with Granada were terrible contracts. They were vague. They lacked, you know, precision, detail. There were numerous provisions that simply were not addressed. They were very simple, you know, one-paragraph documents.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever determine who had drafted those documents?
David LeGrand: I believe Martin Bashir drafted them.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that Mr. Bashir --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object and move to strike. Lack of foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: No personal knowledge.
The Court: Sustained. Stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn who had drafted those documents?
David LeGrand: I honestly don't recall today.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
David LeGrand: I'm sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: You reviewed -- was it two documents?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what were those two documents?
David LeGrand: They were one-page -- they each consisted of one piece of paper, one page each, and they, you know, to my recollection, were one, maybe two paragraphs. They were very short. And they basically granted the rights to Granada to make a televisual production based on the life of Mr. Jackson as he knew it.
Mr. Mesereau: Did it appear to you that Mr. Jackson had been taken advantage of by Mr. Bashir?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Improper opinion; calls for a conclusion.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: When you looked at these documents and you learned about the circumstances surrounding the development of the Bashir documentary, did you form any conclusion about whether or not Mr. Jackson understood what he was doing?
David LeGrand: I found it hard to believe that this -- that these two pieces --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object to the answer being more than “yes” or “no”.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You spoke to Mr. Jackson at one point about the making of the Bashir documentary, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You spoke to lawyers in England about the legality surrounding that documentary, true?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You hired lawyers in America to explore what had happened in the making of that documentary, correct?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that true?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it one of the most poorly documented television transactions you'd ever seen?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Leading; calls for a conclusion.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: I really had no background, you know, adequate to assess that. However, Mr. Genga from the Paul Hastings firm and -- was, I would say, shocked by the --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object. Move to strike; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained. Stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: What was your legal position in the lawsuit that was filed in England on behalf of Mr. Jackson?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; vague.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: I was primarily responsible for managing, coordinating and facilitating the trial lawyers, the solicitors, the U.S. and UK components of the -- of the lawyers. We also had a firm in the UK called Bell Yard that was a public relations firm that was hired through, I believe, one of the UK solicitors. And my primary role was to assist in formulating a plan, tactics, coordinating the delivery of the legal services by the different components. We needed witness statements. We needed, you know, background material. We needed research. I would -- my primary role was really a facilitator or manager of the other lawyers.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was Mr. Jackson's legal position, as you understood it, in the lawsuit filed in England?
David LeGrand: Well, this has been a few years. The claims were that Mr. Bashir, and through Mr. Bashir Granada, misrepresented to Mr. Jackson what they were going to accomplish in this production. Mr. Jackson had told me that Mr. Bashir had promised him the right to screen and edit the final production before it went on to -- you know, on the air.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object and move to strike that last sentence as hearsay.
The Court: Sustained. It's nonresponsive.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm just asking you to testify, as best you can recall, the legal position lawyers took on behalf of Mr. Jackson in that suit in England against Bashir.
David LeGrand: Well, we took the position that Granada did not own the copyright. We asserted that they had a license, rather than ownership. We were seeking custody and ownership of all the video. We were seeking to limit the after-market production, you know, VHS or DVDs. And seek damages from Granada for breach of their agreement with Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: And was most of the agreement you were claiming was breached oral understandings, as opposed to written?
David LeGrand: Well, certainly some.
Mr. Mesereau: When you looked at what you described as a few documents that Mr. Jackson had signed involving the Bashir documentary, do you recall seeing anything about compensation?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure if it was in the document or not. Mr. Jackson did not seek compensation for the production. But he did expect a significant donation to a charity.
Mr. Mesereau: So basically Mr. Jackson worked with Mr. Bashir for free, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Mr. Bashir and his company were standing to make millions on this show, true?
David LeGrand: To the best of my knowledge, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, was this documentary distributed around the world?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did Mr. Jackson get anything financially from this distribution around the world?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. The answer is in. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: You said you were monitoring the lawyers who litigated the case in England, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And in the course of monitoring those lawyers, what were you doing?
David LeGrand: I was reviewing draft documents, pleadings, serving as, you know, a facilitator of the conference calls that we were having on a fairly frequent basis, especially in about the first four to six weeks of dealing with Granada. These were extensive conferences where we would discuss the legal position. There was kind of a letter campaign going on back and forth between the UK lawyers and the lawyers for Granada, and we would review, as a group, those letters and assess responses, circulate responses, collaboratively edit and ultimately issue responsive documents.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there a lot of media attention devoted to this lawsuit in England?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there media attention in the United States devoted to Mr. Jackson's lawsuit against Bashir?
David LeGrand: Yes, though I would say not quite as much as in the UK. But, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long did this litigation last, if you remember?
David LeGrand: It is still going on today. It is on hold. But it is still a record case in England, as far as I know.
Mr. Mesereau: And are you still involved in that case in any way?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you're the one who hired the lawyers who represented Mr. Jackson in that suit, correct?
David LeGrand: I would say Mr. Jackson hired the lawyers. I was the facilitator in suggesting that these particular lawyers be engaged for this purpose.
Mr. Mesereau: And who contacted the lawyers for possible engagement?
David LeGrand: I did. Well, I did. I had an acquaintance over a number of years with Mr. Eric Joss from the Paul Hastings law firm here -- well, in Los Angeles. And so I asked Eric Joss if his firm would be able to provide representation. He then also spoke to lawyers. I mean, it wasn't -- this wasn't all me. This was a number of lawyers on two continents. And so I relied upon, you know -- we all relied upon each other as counsel to Mr. Jackson to collaboratively assess and assemble a group of lawyers that had, you know, the skill and background to be appropriate for this type of litigation.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall what Bashir's position was in that lawsuit? What was he claiming?
David LeGrand: Well, I don't know about Bashir. I know that Granada claimed that they owned the copyright. They ultimately did agree not to use the outtakes for a second production. They agreed to veil the faces of the children, to do some blurring in the airing of the video to protect Mr. Jackson's family. So there were concessions made by Granada. Their basic position was they owned the copyright and they had the unequivocal right to produce the production without any input or editing from Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: And without paying Mr. Jackson a penny, right?
David LeGrand: Correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You mentioned a concern about his children's -- excuse me. Let me rephrase that. You mentioned a concern about Michael Jackson's children's faces being on the show. What are you referring to?
David LeGrand: Part of the film that Mr. Bashir had included filming of Mr. Jackson's children. That's what I meant.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Mr. Jackson upset about that?
David LeGrand: He was concerned about their visual image being shown worldwide without, you know, blurring or some other technique to obscure their faces.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know why?
David LeGrand: Well, he's concerned about their safety and security.
Mr. Mesereau: And was blurring their faces one of the issues that was heavily litigated in England in that suit?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure I would use the term “heavily litigated”. But it was a significant point in the discussions with Granada and ultimately one of the terms that Granada agreed to.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it Mr. Jackson's position in that lawsuit that Bashir had agreed to not display Mr. Jackson's children's faces before it aired, to your knowledge?
David LeGrand: I remember statements to that effect. I'm not sure exactly when or where in the context.
Mr. Mesereau: The overall thrust of the case was that Bashir had completely hoodwinked Mr. Jackson, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Leading.
Mr. Mesereau: Was the thrust of the lawsuit that Mr. Bashir had made numerous misrepresentations to Mr. Jackson about the show?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What else did you do personally in that litigation, other than what you've described?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure, Mr. Mesereau, what you mean by that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall who the parties were in the case?
David LeGrand: I know we had Mr. Jackson. Simultaneous to the lawsuit there was -- there were complaints filed. The same UK lawyers also indicated there was the potential to file complaints with I believe it's the British Broadcasting Board. There's a board that oversees televisual broadcasts in the UK. And the recommendation was, and ultimately there were filed, several complaints with the broadcasting board. Those complaints were filed on behalf of Mr. Jackson and also on behalf of, I believe it was, the Arvizo children, and I'm not sure if Mrs. Arvizo was included or not. But there were -- there was a complaint filed on behalf of them. There was also discussion at least of filing a complaint on behalf of Mr. Moslehi, Hamid, because I believe he appeared without consent as well. There was issues over consent to the appearance of various people and so there were complaints filed with the Broadcasting Standards Board.
Mr. Mesereau: When you say “Broadcasting Standards Board” in England, are you referring to an administrative agency that regulates television production?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And is that an agency that monitors to see whether or not ethical standards are met in television production in England?
David LeGrand: That was my understanding, yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you say complaints were filed with that agency, about what Bashir had done?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And they were filed on behalf of the Arvizo family as well as Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: There was considerable publicity surrounding those complaints, wasn't there?
David LeGrand: Yes, I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: And there were media reports on the Arvizos when those complaints were made, correct?
David LeGrand: I'm sure there were.
Mr. Mesereau: This is in January of 2003?
David LeGrand: Well, we're probably well into February now.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Certainly it was a media event that Mr. Jackson and the Arvizos had sued Granada and Bashir and filed complaints against Granada and Bashir, correct?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
David LeGrand: Yes. The media seems to be fascinated with Mr. Jackson and those complaints were the subject of some media attention.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall yourself being contacted by representatives of the media in this litigation?
David LeGrand: I was contacted by members of the media on a repeated basis with respect to Mr. Jackson, whether it was as to the litigation or otherwise. There was seemingly significant interest by the media in seeking statements from me or anyone associated with me.
Mr. Mesereau: Was this media attention that you experienced -- this happened throughout your representation of Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: It tailed off. It was especially acute during the -- I'd say the, I don't know, three, four weeks of February when we were moving forward with the Granada action, and negotiating with FOX over the “Take 2” type of video.
Mr. Mesereau: So would it be correct to state that in February of 2003, because of the litigation you were involved in and the complaints that had been filed against Bashir, there was tremendous media attention on Mr. Jackson?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object. Leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you involved in efforts to respond to this media attention on behalf of Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: As I indicated, I worked with, you know, Mr. Jackson to engage a number of lawyers and professionals to respond to the Granada broadcast, to respond to the media attention. There was a PR firm in the UK, Bell Yard, that was hired to work on, you know, media pieces. So, yeah, I was involved, but that was not my -- you know, I'm a lawyer. My primary focus was not dealing with the media.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you hire Bell Yard?
David LeGrand: Well, I didn't. But they were hired through the solicitors in the UK.
Mr. Mesereau: And what is a solicitor?
David LeGrand: As I understand it, in the United Kingdom, there are two types of lawyers. Barristers who go to trial and solicitors who do documents and transactions and business-type dealings. So it takes -- you kind of need both in anything complex that involves the potential of trial. Barristers actually appear in court.
The Court: All right. Let's take our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Go ahead, Counsel.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. LeGrand, you mentioned that a new management team was being formed to manage Mr. Jackson's affairs around the time you began to represent Mr. Jackson, right?
David LeGrand: Part of my direction from Mr. Jackson and Mr. Konitzer was to assist them in developing a new team for cash management, accounting, bookkeeping, and new lawyers with respect to creative elements.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have a lot of contact with Mr. Jackson?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object as vague.
The Court: Overruled.
David LeGrand: At different times during the three or four months that I was most active in representation, it would vary. I mean, when we were focused on the Granada pieces, you know, we had some telephone conferences. The first conference was a couple of hours. At other times my communication with Mr. Jackson was much more brief.
Mr. Mesereau: And who was ultimately part of the new management team?
David LeGrand: Well, the cash management -- initially a company - and I don't remember the name, but the principals were Ed Grossman and Michael Stern - were selected to cake over cash management from Barry Siegel. That ultimately was changed in a few weeks. And the firm of -- it's -- well, it's Allan Whitman. I'm not sure of the firm name. It's Fox, Marty Fox, Whitman, and another couple partners.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you communicating with Mr. Konitzer in this regard?
David LeGrand: Oh, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you communicating with Mr. Weizner in this regard?
David LeGrand: Less so, but yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your impression that Mr. Konitzer and Mr. Weizner were trying to take over the management of Mr. Jackson's business?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your impression that they wanted Mr. Jackson kept out of a lot of the day-to-day discussions?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you consider Mr. Jackson to be very sophisticated in financial or legal matters?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have daily discussions with Konitzer?
David LeGrand: During the time period from the end of January until, I would say, mid-March there were probably a few days that I did not have a conversation with Mr. Konitzer.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall Mr. Konitzer communicating that no one was to contact Mr. Jackson directly but him?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Overruled.
David LeGrand: No. I was never instructed by Mr. Konitzer that I could not contact Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Mr. Konitzer sending memos around basically saying Mr. Jackson is to be kept out of the daily detail?
David LeGrand: Not specifically. I just remember that Mr. Konitzer wanted to be --
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; not responsive.
Mr. Mesereau: I think it is responsive.
The Court: Sustained. I'll strike after, “Not specifically”.
Mr. Mesereau: What were Mr. Konitzer's directives to you with respect to whether or not Mr. Jackson was to be involved in the detail of management?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Overruled.
David LeGrand: Mr. Konitzer wanted to serve Mr. Jackson as the overall manager of business affairs for Mr. Jackson, and that Mr. Jackson would have ultimate authority and decision-making, but that Mr. Konitzer would serve as, you know, the day-to-day manager, and that was my understanding.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you discuss legal matters involving Mr. Jackson with Mr. Konitzer?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how often during that period of time do you think you did that?
David LeGrand: There were legal matters discussed. There were financial matters discussed. There were business considerations discussed. Sometimes, you know, that would be two or three times a day. Sometimes we would have meetings. And, you know, there were a few days where I did not speak to Mr. Konitzer during this couple of months of somewhat frenzied activity.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some point in time did you become suspicious of Mr. Konitzer and Mr. Weizner?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Well, move to strike. Leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: I can't recall if there was an answer, Your Honor. I apologize. Could I --
The Court: The answer was, “Yes”.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Why did you become suspicious of Konitzer and Weizner?
David LeGrand: I became concerned that they were in a position to divert funds. I was concerned about the -- having appropriate documentation for tax purposes for Mr. Jackson and his companies. And in general, I -- I began to disagree with some of Mr. Konitzer's decisions on matters and felt that he was making bad decisions, I guess is the way to say it. So I -- I became suspicious of his motives and actions.
Mr. Mesereau: Could you please explain what you were suspicious of?
David LeGrand: I was --
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You mentioned you were suspicious of financial matters involving Konitzer, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Please explain.
David LeGrand: Well, ultimately there was another attorney involved who was serving as the escrow agent for some funds, and I asked him for an accounting in order to get Allan Whitman up to speed on some disbursements, payments, payables, et cetera. And that accounting came from this attorney, and it indicated that there had been about $900,000 -- I don't remember the exact number, but it was many hundreds of thousands of dollars that had been disbursed to Ronald Konitzer or Dieter Weizner. I mean, the combination was in hundreds of thousands of dollars. And I then -- I spoke to a couple of the lawyers that, you know, were providing representation, and I ultimately wrote a letter within, you know, a couple of days of learning of this. I wrote a letter to Mr. Konitzer asking him to account for this money.
Mr. Mesereau: Was the amount you were concerned about approximately $965,000?
David LeGrand: Yeah, without seeing it today. But that sounds like approximately the right number, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it refresh your recollection if I show you your letter?
David LeGrand: Yes, it would.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: May I see what you've got there, Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. LeGrand, have you had a chance to review that document?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about your concerns involving Mr. Konitzer?
David LeGrand: Yes, the amount -- the aggregate amount of disbursements that I set forth in that letter was $965,000.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did that amount come from, if you remember?
David LeGrand: I believe the source of that funds was the FOX -- some of the FOX payments with regard to the “Take 2” video production.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever get a response to your expression of concern?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What was it?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Hearsay; foundation.
The Court: I think the question is vague. I can't rule on the objection.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: You mentioned the rebuttal show, correct?
David LeGrand: “Take 2”, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Please explain what “Take 2” was.
David LeGrand: “Take 2” was a video production produced in collaboration with FOX. Brad Lachman Productions produced -- was primary -- they were FOX's primary representatives for the production. Maury Povich was the narrator. It largely consisted of video of Debbie Rowe from her interview with, I think it was Ian Drew at The Globe, and video of -- shot by Hamid Moslehi. I'm not sure how to pronounce his name. But it was video shot by Hamid that was outtakes, so to speak, or video shot of Bashir with Michael. Some of it was video of Martin Bashir filming Michael Jackson, or filming at Neverland, or, you know, but that was -- two primary components was those two sets of video.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you involved in the production of that product?
David LeGrand: Well, you know, I'm a lawyer. I'm not a videographer, editor or a graphic artist. We -- I facilitated -- again, I brought in -- I hired a law firm to do copyright work with respect to that video. One of my associates in the firm, a lady named Ann-Marie Levy, was coordinating most of the copyright work between this other firm and Brad Lachman's in-house lawyer on copyrights and the FOX people. I ultimately negotiated the contract with FOX. I believe it was -- Marisa Fermin was the vice-president of FOX that I worked with to get a contract for that production.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that Konitzer and Weizner had a role in that production?
David LeGrand: They were involved in the discussions as to the contract, the terms of the contract. At least Ronald Konitzer reviewed the draft agreements, and I discussed them with him. I'm not sure -- well, I don't know what all his involvement was. I mean, Mr. Konitzer had things he did that didn't directly involve me, so --
Mr. Mesereau: Why did you think Konitzer and Weizner had stolen $965,000 from Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: Well, because --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object as misstates the evidence in terms of the word “stolen”.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Why did you think Konitzer and Weizner had diverted $965,000 from Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: Because the report I got from this other lawyer showed those disbursements.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you saw the record of those disbursements, what did you do?
David LeGrand: I spoke to several of the other lawyers that were representing Mr. Jackson, and agreed that I should write a letter to Mr. Konitzer asking him to account.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever find out what he had done with the money?
David LeGrand: No, I was terminated by Mr. Jackson as counsel within, I don't know, two weeks, maybe, of that letter to Mr. Konitzer.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever have Konitzer, Weizner -- excuse me. Let me start with something else. Do you know who someone named Marc Schaffel is?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who is Marc Schaffel, to your knowledge?
David LeGrand: Marc Schaffel is an independent producer. He had worked on one of Mr. Jackson's albums at one point. He was involved in working with Brad Lachman Productions to create the “Take 2” video.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point, did you have Schaffel, Konitzer and Weizner investigated?
David LeGrand: I -- again, on behalf of Mr. Jackson, I engaged an independent private investigative company, and asked them to investigate the backgrounds of Mr. Konitzer and Mr. Weizner and Mr. Schaffel.
Mr. Mesereau: Why?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; improper opinion.
The Court: Overruled.
David LeGrand: Because I was suspicious of their motives, and some of their statements didn't quite seem to add up.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you think they were stealing from Mr. Jackson?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Improper opinion; no foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you do to have Schaffel, Konitzer and Weizner investigated?
David LeGrand: Working with one of my partners at Hale Lane who had the -- he's a former U.S. Assistant Prosecutor and had good relationships with a couple of private investigating firms, we selected a firm, got them a retainer and asked them to do background checks and let us know what they found.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you say your partner was an assistant prosecutor. What do you mean?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; relevancy.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You hired an investigative firm, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: To start investigating these people, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And others involving Mr. Jackson, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You were doing it on behalf of Mr. Jackson, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. The answer is in. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you doing this to protect Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you the one who arranged for the investigative firm to do this investigation?
David LeGrand: My partner Mr. Gibson and I did, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
David LeGrand: He actually had the primary contact with the investigative firm.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know whether or not Konitzer or Weizner had managed to sign documents for Mr. Jackson?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; vague.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know what a power of attorney is?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What is a power of attorney?
David LeGrand: A power of attorney is a legal document authorizing one person to act in the place and stead of another.
Mr. Mesereau: And does a power of attorney allow one to sign on behalf of someone else?
David LeGrand: It can.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn whether or not Mr. Jackson had given a power of attorney to either of these two people?
David LeGrand: Yes, I believe he did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did that concern you?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Why?
David LeGrand: I was concerned that they could abuse that power or exceed the authority of the power.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you do anything about that?
David LeGrand: Yes. I spoke to some of the other lawyers that were representing Mr. Jackson, and we agreed that we would ask Mr. Jackson to revoke the power of attorney.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that done?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some point, you learned that Konitzer had arranged to have you terminated, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Hearsay; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Was the investigation going on when your duties were terminated?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure of the exact timing. I'm just not sure today. It's been a couple years.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, your former partner and you were both former prosecutors, correct?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Was the investigation into Konitzer, Weizner and Schaffel conducted by you and your partner?
David LeGrand: Mr. Gibson, my partner, and I discussed the need for some investigative background material. We agreed it was appropriate, and we engaged the investigative firm on behalf of Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: And when your services were terminated, do you know if that investigation was still going on?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Who chose the investigative firm?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Where was the investigative firm located?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; relevancy.
The Court: Overruled.
David LeGrand: Again, recollection, I believe they were based in New York.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet Janet Arvizo?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when that was?
David LeGrand: I was at Neverland in early February of 2003, the day the 60 Minutes film crew was there. And I met Janet Arvizo during that day. I was there for most of a Saturday at the ranch.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have much contact with her that day?
David LeGrand: Not much. I mean, we spoke. You know, introduced ourselves. There were a lot of people in and out of the ranch that day. We had an entire film crew. There was -- Mr. Geragos was there with one of his associate lawyers. Mr. Konitzer was there. Mr. Weizner was -- I think Mr. Weizner was there. I'm not sure anymore. It was quite a zoo, so to speak.
Mr. Mesereau: And what were your impressions of Ms. Arvizo on that particular day?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see Mrs. Arvizo at Neverland on that particular day?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you speak to her?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you speak to her at length?
David LeGrand: I don't think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see her throughout the day?
David LeGrand: Saw her off and on.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did she appear upset to you?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you observe her demeanor on that particular day?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What were your observations?
David LeGrand: She seemed satisfied with being there. She expressed support for Mr. Jackson. That was pretty much what I recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see any other members of her family at Neverland on that particular day?
David LeGrand: I saw Gavin Arvizo and a young lady, I think her name is Star. And then there was I believe Gavin's brother, but I don't recall his name. They were just kind of running around. I mean, literally. They'd be boisterous kids running through the house, and then burst out a door and go somewhere. Gavin indicated he had been riding bumper cars and having a pretty good time that morning.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall whether or not you discussed the lawsuit in England with Mrs. Arvizo?
David LeGrand: I really don't recall that. I'm just not sure where we were in the lawsuit time frame. There was so much going on.
Mr. Mesereau: Were there any representatives of the media at Neverland on that particular day?
David LeGrand: Oh, just Ed Bradley and the entire film crew for 60 Minutes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did Mrs. Arvizo appear to be in the proximity of Ed Bradley and the 60 Minutes crew?
David LeGrand: Oh, yes. I mean, I remember at one point we were kind of seated near the kitchen. There's a video screen/T.V. on the wall. Nickelodeon was playing. And Mrs. Arvizo was sitting on the couch, and I think it was Michael -- I think it was Michael Rodesky. I'm not sure of the exact name, but he was like a real production-type guy, and his assistant, a woman, they were sitting on the couch. And I was kind of -- I was there for just a few minutes, and then I left the room. But I know -- I saw them later. They were all still sitting there, so --
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have any communication with Ms. Arvizo after that date?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure. There was some phone calls later, a few weeks later. There was some phone calls about the execution of some releases that I had drafted, and I'm not sure if I spoke to Mrs. Arvizo or not.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall --
David LeGrand: It was like, you know, ten or eleven o'clock at night, I believe. 10:00 at night. And I'd had, you know -- I was living at that point on about four or five hours of sleep for about six weeks and I'm just not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: You say you drafted some releases. What are you referring to?
David LeGrand: Video consents. We were trying to -- again, this is all relating to the “Take 2” video. My assistant, Ann-Marie Levy, had drafted a form of video consent/release/authorization for a person's image to be used in a televisual broadcast. It's a pretty standard Hollywood-type form, and we were seeking those from anybody who might appear in “Take 2”.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, was it your understanding that the Arvizo family was going to be involved in “Take 2”?
David LeGrand: The answer is, I'm not sure whether they were or weren't going to be. The idea was to shoot footage and then work with FOX, Brad Lachman Productions, and edit that footage to create a decent program. It wasn't my decision what footage would get used, but -- but there was a desire to include them, to get some footage of them. Whether or not it would get used, I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: And you say you drafted these releases, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And then what did you do with them?
David LeGrand: Gosh, we distributed releases to -- I'm pretty sure we gave them to Brad Lachman Productions. You know, my assistant, Ann-Marie Levy, was really the primary person handling that. I know she had communications with the Brad Lachman folks. I'm fairly sure she would have sent them to Marc Schaffel, because he had some people who were involved. He was helping coordinate Hamid Moslehi, who was actually doing some of the video. Ann-Marie, under my direction, had been coordinating the documents with Attorney Iris Finsilver on behalf of Debbie Rowe for her appearance. So a number of people would have gotten those forms.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall your being in contact with various companies involving the production of “Take 2”?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure what you mean by “various companies”. I worked with, you know, Marisa Fermin at FOX. We had a lot of dialogue with Brad Lachman. We hired, you know, a law firm in Las Vegas to assist with copyrights. We had discussions with Schaffel. I'm not sure who else. I don't know if I talked -- I'm pretty sure I talked to Hamid at one point in that whole process.
Mr. Mesereau: Who is Brad Lachman?
David LeGrand: Brad is the -- I think he's -- well, Brad Lachman Productions is an independent film company that was hired -- was selected by FOX to produce the “Take 2” video.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you communicating with lawyers on behalf of Brad Lachman Productions?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Why?
David LeGrand: We needed to have releases from anybody who would appear -- whose image would appear in the video. There was music being selected. A lot of Mr. Jackson's music was to accompany the video. We had to get the appropriate copyright releases executed, and there's money involved in making payments for a number of these sorts of things. And my role again, as an attorney, I was, you know, trying to facilitate that process and make sure that we had appropriate lawyers carrying out those processes, and from time to time make sure -- I would have direct conversation to make sure there weren't glitches, to understand where any hold-ups were, and try to motivate everyone to be effective and get the job done.
Mr. Mesereau: And I believe you said you were in contact with people associated with FOX, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what were you doing with them?
David LeGrand: Primarily negotiating the contract for payment for the production.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have a lot of contact with representatives of FOX in that regard?
David LeGrand: I had a lot of contact with Marisa Fermin during that period. She was really the representative of FOX I dealt with.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you said you were getting four or five hours of sleep a night during this period, right?
David LeGrand: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Why was that?
David LeGrand: The combination of tasks that I was propelled into was pretty overwhelming. We would typically start the day with a teleconference with the United Kingdom, because of the time difference, and then by the end of -- so the middle of my day, late day, would be U.S. work. And then fairly often I would be back on the phone with the United Kingdom at night, you know, sometimes 11:00, 12:00, one o'clock, because that's morning in the UK. It's the next day already. So sleeping became problematic. Plus, quite honestly, my mind was just full. There was so much content coming to me on a daily basis, it just -- I couldn't sleep. I'd just lay there and have things going through my head and make little to-do lists in my mind.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you talked about the concept of copyright. What do you mean?
David LeGrand: Well, copyright is a statutory right in the United States. There is -- I believe there's some common law associated with copyright. But copyright -- there's a federal copyright act, and copyright provides protection for creations, artwork, books, media. It's not like patents. You can't copyright a concept. You can copyright a creative work.
Mr. Mesereau: And what were you doing for Mr. Jackson in the area of copyrighting?
David LeGrand: I'm not a copyright lawyer by trade, but I understand enough to know that copyright is very important with respect to televisual production. And so, you know, I engaged appropriate lawyers having expertise, you know, patent/trademark lawyers who work regularly in the copyright field, to help make sure that copyright was preserved for Mr. Jackson, or where other persons' copyright -- copyrighted work would be used, that we had the appropriate release and authority, because copyright can carry -- copyright infringement can carry pretty significant penalties under the statutes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you involved at all in issues involving licensing?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What were you doing?
David LeGrand: I -- I interviewed and ultimately recommended that Michael Jackson, MJJ Productions, et cetera, hire Haber International, I think is the name of the company, to do international distribution of the “Take 2” video under license. The contract with FOX specifically provided that basically Michael Jackson preserved the right to distribute internationally.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. LeGrand, there was no secret around the world that the “Take 2” show was being developed, right?
David LeGrand: It certainly -- I'm not aware of it being a secret, no.
Mr. Mesereau: I mean, it was well publicized that a “Take 2” production was being developed, right?
David LeGrand: I don't know if it was well publicized or not, but there certainly was some publicity.
Mr. Mesereau: And lawyers for various entities were working around the clock to help get the “Take 2” production completed, right?
David LeGrand: Well, I would say a number of people were working very, very hard, including lawyers, to get that production done quickly. And the pressure was FOX wanted the production for sweeps week.
Mr. Mesereau: What do you mean by that?
David LeGrand: In the television world, there's what -- as I understand it, sweeps week is when the rating companies analyze the viewers for -- and this is real important for pricing of commercials, and it really determines a value of T.V. shows and such. So sweeps week is ratings week, and it's something that's very important to the various networks to have high ratings during sweeps week.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you learn that FOX was concerned about that time pressure?
David LeGrand: Well, Marisa Fermin told me they wanted the show for that purpose.
Mr. Mesereau: During this period of time when you were getting four to five hours of sleep a night, how much of your day was devoted to the development of the “Take 2” project?
David LeGrand: It would vary day-to-day. That was not my primary focus in representing Mr. Jackson and trying to coordinate all the lawyers. We had -- during that same time frame, we had -- the decision had been made to replace Barry Siegel as money manager with Ed Grossman and Michael Stern's company. That -- ultimately, Ed Grossman and Michael Stern decided they really could not handle the business, and then we transitioned to Mr. Whitman. That was extremely time-consuming. Took a significant part of my time and effort. There were other matters that came up. I'm not sure exactly when. There was -- there was -- I had to communicate with, I think it's Brian Wolf at the Lavely Singer firm about some litigation, minor -- you know, fairly minor litigation cases that were going on at the time. I had the entire UK -- you know, U.S./UK litigation in pretty much full gear. There were just a host of issues that needed attention.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you dealing with other countries besides England when it came to licensing any footage involving the “Take 2” show?
David LeGrand: Yes. Haber International was doing the primary negotiation, but Fred would -- Fred and/or his associate, George Scanlon, would contact me with respect to approvals of -- or seeking approvals for various licensing deals. At some point, we had some, you know, fairly significant discussions. I remember in particular Sky Broadcasting. We had several conference calls and some extensive correspondence with Sky Broadcasting over the licensing for “Take 2”. They're overseas. I'm not even sure where. I don't know whether it was UK. I think it was the UK itself. I'm not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall whether or not you were involved in any contacts with the media at this period of time involving the development of the “Take 2” show?
David LeGrand: I had e-mails, phone calls, personal visits from various networks and shows expressing interest in “Take 2” before we ended up contracting with FOX. There was -- and I won't call it a bidding war, but there was certainly interest by several parties, and proposals were being submitted to me.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, was the development of the “Take 2” program part of a conspiracy to kidnap the Arvizo family?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Argumentative; calls for a conclusion.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Was the work you were doing, as far as you're concerned, part of any conspiracy to violate the rights of the Arvizos?
Mr. Auchincloss: Same objection.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever conspire to violate the rights of the Arvizo family in the development of the “Take 2” show?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you aware of any efforts during the production of this show to falsely imprison the Arvizo family at Neverland?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. No foundation. Also calls for a legal conclusion.
The Court: I think the problem is with the word “falsely imprison”. I'll sustain the objection.
Mr. Mesereau: While you were doing all of the work that you described around the world, various law firms, with the distribution company, with FOX, with Haber, was it ever your understanding that, as part of that project, the Arvizos were to be held against their will?
Mr. Auchincloss: Same objection as to calls for a conclusion and no foundation. Also hearsay.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: No, I have no knowledge that the Arvizos were to be held or being held against their will.
Mr. Mesereau: During this frantic time period that you have described, did you have any knowledge of whether or not the media was focusing their attention on Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: Yes. There was significant media attention throughout the world following the initial broadcast of the Bashir video in the UK.
Mr. Mesereau: And would that media attention have gone on through January, February and March of 2003, to your knowledge?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure about -- well, it was -- I'm not sure of the exact dates. It was very late January that -- or first of February that the broadcast was in the UK. It was that -- right at that time frame was the first broadcast. So the media started, you know, when the clips were being produced and the Granada broadcast was being publicized in the UK. The broadcast in the UK kind of started a significant amount of publicity. And then within a few days, the program was broadcast in the U.S., so the -- how long that continued -- I mean, was it still at that level of media in March? I think it was tailing off some compared to what it was in those first couple weeks of February.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you've indicated that you had some involvement in Mr. Jackson's financial affairs, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And please describe what your involvement was.
David LeGrand: Mr. Konitzer, Mr. Jackson asked me to assist in replacing Barry Siegel as the cash manager for Mr. Jackson. We also looked at the possibility of replacing his tax team. The accountants had actually prepared tax returns. Mr. Siegel did not prepare tax returns. Ultimately that decision was made not to change that accounting firm. As part of that process, initially Mr. Grossman/Mr. Stern's company was hired, and I would communicate with them on, you know, often a daily or, you know, sometimes hourly, certainly quite often with regard to financial matters. Also, during the same time, I would have -- people like Evvy Tavasci would call and say that Michael needed money for something and would ask me to facilitate that. So I also was in the process of reviewing the various loan documents. I was trying to get a firm grasp of Mr. Jackson's financial affairs, try to understand, ascertain his assets, his liabilities, and that was all wrapped up in this transitioning of trying to put a new team into place.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall doing any work involving the Sony/ATV music catalog?
David LeGrand: Well, I looked -- I got a copy of the Sony/ATV documents. I had one of my commercial associates analyze those documents and generate a report summarizing the content. These are very voluminous, detailed, complex documents, and I had an associate review them and analyze them and I believe produce a report to me.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was -- or, excuse me. What is the Sony/ATV music catalog?
David LeGrand: Well, Sony/ATV is a joint venture where Mr. Jackson and Sony own -- have ownership in the company that owns a variety of copyrights and rights to music, and basically is, as I recall, the -- Mr. Jackson contributed his ownership of The Beatles catalog and other music that he had acquired rights to. He contributed that into the joint venture. Sony put some of its music licensing rights into the joint venture. And then Sony continued to, as a manager of the joint venture, acquire additional rights to music.
Mr. Mesereau: And why were you concerned about the Sony/ATV music catalog?
David LeGrand: Well, the Sony/ATV joint venture represented a significant portion of Mr. Jackson's assets. His ownership interest in that entity was a very considerable portion. And I was somewhat surprised to find that Mr. Jackson really did not have a diversified portfolio of investments that, you know, I'm somewhat used to in the more nonHollywood commercial world that I've worked in.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you feel he had been poorly advised in the past?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Foundation; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Once you analyzed what the Sony/ATV music catalog was, what did you do?
David LeGrand: Well, at this time -- by the time I had that analysis -- well, a couple things happened. One, I spoke to Mr. Konitzer and expressed to him that this was a much more complex set of documents than Mr. Konitzer had earlier indicated to me. He really did not understand the depth and complexity, the rights Mr. Jackson had and the limitations on Mr. Jackson's ability to, you know, sell any interest in that particular asset. I found out, you know, that there were loans -- Bank of America, in particular, had a loan portfolio that was involved in this whole Sony/ATV joint venture, as Mr. Jackson's interest was collateral, and his financial affairs were, you know, fairly complex, and there wasn't a lot of liquidity there.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some point, you made some suggestions to Mr. Jackson about how to restructure his financial affairs, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And why did you do that?
David LeGrand: Within the first, I'd say, maybe three weeks or so, four weeks of representing Mr. Jackson, I learned that his current payables mid-February were in the range of $10 million. There was insufficient cash available to pay those payables on a current, timely basis. I came to understand that essentially most of his income primarily went to pay down a credit line and then he was allowed to draw, I think it was $2 million a month on the credit line. But there were significant constraints on his ability to draw against those credit funds, and his -- the bulk of his assets were pledged for these credit lines. There was -- actually, I think there's two different loans. But anyway, he was highly illiquid.
Mr. Mesereau: At one point, you suggested he consider selling his interest in the catalog, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And it was your belief that if he did that, he could end up with $200 million after taxes, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that would be exclusive of royalty income, right?
David LeGrand: Yes. I want to -- can I redress that? I wasn't sure about the tax consequences. At that point I really was not -- I can't say I was up to speed on the tax history of his portfolio, his interest in the joint venture. There's -- that's all fairly complex. So my analysis was based on some assumptions, and qualified, to a degree. So the $200 million number, you know, this -- this was not meant to be precise. I was not in a position to give precision at that point in that analysis.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk to any financial experts before you gave that advice?
David LeGrand: Well, I spoke to Allan Whitman, the CPA who was managing -- I think by that time was managing Mr. Jackson's money. I spoke with another lawyer who was working with Mr. Jackson, a Mr. Malnik in Florida. I'm not sure -- I'm fairly sure I -- he's not a financial expert. I'm pretty sure I talked to Eric Joss at Paul Hastings about my analysis.
Mr. Mesereau: And you had suggested that Mr. Jackson restructure his financial affairs, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you made suggestions as to how he could do that and avoid bankruptcy, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And your conclusion was that there was a way to end up worth $200 million after taxes and excluding music royalties, correct?
David LeGrand: That was my analysis, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, during the time that you represented Mr. Jackson, were you involved in any business opportunities involving Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: Well, the FOX negotiations were a business opportunity. I know there were subsequent discussions with FOX for additional programs. There were -- I had discussions with Jack Sussman, I think he's at CBS, with regards to possible programs. We -- I -- Mr. Jackson indicated a desire to maybe do some film work. And I brought -- I arranged an introduction to a law firm in Hollywood that really practices representing talent in the film and music arena. A young man named Howard Fishman, an attorney, was brought in. There were discussions with the movie director Bob Evans about producing a biography of Mr. Jackson's life. There were -- you know, those are the ones I remember. I'm sure there were more, but those were the primary discussions I recall.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall any discussions about marketing any products involving Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: Oh, yeah. I'm sorry. One of the things that -- one of the items that came to my attention during this couple of months was there had been a contract entered into sometime before - I'm not sure whether it was a year or two years - that allowed Mr. Jackson to buy out a company that had acquired the rights to merchandise a variety of goods under his name, I guess is the best way to say it. They had the right to produce, you know, Jackson perfume, for example, or various goods with the “Jackson” name associated with it. And that contract needed to be paid off. There was a balance due to -- on an installment payment arrangement. There was a balance due for him to reacquire those rights. We actually -- I did facilitate the payment being made so that those rights came back to Mr. Jackson. And there were a couple of negotiations, one I think was a perfume. I know there was something else, but I can't remember what it was. It wasn't big money. It was like $20- or $40,000. But there were other instances of opportunities for revenue for Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall, in February of 2003, Sony/ATV offering to pay $10 million to purchase a Christmas song from Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: You know, that sounds familiar. But I really don't have a specific recollection of that. It -- it rings a bell with me, but....
Mr. Mesereau: Might it refresh your recollection if I show you a letter in that regard?
David LeGrand: Sure.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had a chance to look at that document?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it refresh your recollection about that issue?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What do you recall about that?
David LeGrand: I recall receiving the letter, a copy of the letter from Mr. Branca. And I remember I spoke to Mr. Konitzer. And I'm not sure what the ultimate outcome was. I believe Mr. Branca was told to pursue the discussions.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember any projects involving games relating to Mr. Jackson, video games, anything of that sort?
David LeGrand: There were several discussions about the possibility of seeking license money, royalty money, for gaming machines in Nevada in particular. There were some suggestions that one or more of the major manufacturers might be interested in a Michael Jackson slot machine of some sort.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you mentioned your discussions with a producer about a movie about Mr. Jackson's life?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you please explain what you're talking about?
David LeGrand: Well, Mr. Fishman and I attended a dinner one night at the residence of movie director Bob Evans, I think is his name. Robert Evans. And Mr. Evans was very enthusiastic about the possibility of producing a movie based on the life of Michael Jackson. And he wanted to negotiate for those rights.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it be accurate to say that while you were representing Michael Jackson in January, February, March of 2003, there was a constant swarm of business proposals from various parts of the world involving Mr. Jackson?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Leading and vague --
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- as to “swarm of business proposals”.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it part of your responsibilities to involve yourself in potential business opportunities involving Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: Well, for that short time, I really was one of the primary facilitators for business transactions for Mr. Jackson, and several people brought proposals to me or informed me that there were proposals of various kinds. I'm not sure how much was my responsibility. As a lawyer, when clients ask for assistance, I give them assistance. Sometimes I was in the position where, you know, somebody would say to me, “Gee, do you think this would be of interest?” Or another lawyer, you know, would send me the contract, a proposal. I think the perfume contract actually came from Brian Wolf's law firm. So, a lot of this came to me, but I'm not sure how much of it was my responsibility.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you're not a specialist in music law, right?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Mesereau: During the time you were doing all of this work for Mr. Jackson, he also had a law firm doing his music legal work, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: So all of the business opportunities or projects you're talking about are really separate and apart from the music business, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that business opportunities in the music area were going to another law firm at this point in time?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, while you were representing Mr. Jackson, how many law firms were involved in his affairs?
David LeGrand: Well, the Katten Muchin firm was providing representation in a couple pieces of litigation. The Ziffren firm, John Branca in particular, was the primary music counsel. Lavely Singer was providing representation on a variety of matters, mostly litigation-related. There was my firm. There was Paul Hastings law firm. There was Mark Geragos. There was the solicitors in the United Kingdom, the barrister in the United Kingdom. I know I'm missing somebody. Oh, and I had another law firm in Las Vegas that was assisting on copyright work as well. So I don't know how many that is, but it's quite a few lawyers.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember, in March of 2003, discussions about a proposed television special involving Michael Jackson and Marlon Brando?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What do you remember about that?
David LeGrand: You know, not much. There was discussion about that possibility, of combining those two into a production. I never had direct contact with Marlon -- or maybe I did. Well, I ultimately did speak to Marlon Brando and his counsel about putting together some sort of program. But it never got off the ground, as far as I know.
Mr. Mesereau: You were doing work for Mr. Jackson in the area of international trademarks, correct?
David LeGrand: Some of the trademark paperwork came to me and I tried to route it to someone appropriate. I am not an expert in trademark work.
Mr. Mesereau: But what were you doing in that area for Mr. Jackson during January, February and March of 2003?
David LeGrand: Well, I was really just trying to coordinate and make sure that -- if something came to me, I tried to make sure that it went to a lawyer that could appropriately handle it.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, what was going on in that area, as far as lawyers are concerned?
David LeGrand: Yeah, I really don't remember. That was a very minor part of the overall scope of what I was dealing with.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you referring trademark issues for Mr. Jackson to other law firms?
David LeGrand: I think so, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that trademark issues were constantly coming up around the world involving Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: Yes. There were -- there was some things on the Internet that involved his likeness that were being offered for sale, I think. There were some -- there was a couple different -- I'm not sure what to call them. I don't know that they were games or not, but they were interactive elements on the Internet that used his image and likeness. I actually -- the day I was fired, the -- in March, I was having lunch with Allan Whitman and Brian Wolf from the Lavely Singer firm to talk about what kind of actions could be taken and what kind of costs would be associated with taking action to protect Mr. Jackson's image and likeness.
Mr. Mesereau: And was that a concern involving only the United States, or elsewhere?
David LeGrand: Oh, no. It was worldwide in scope. The Net knows no boundaries.
Mr. Mesereau: To handle those issues worldwide, what did you have to do?
David LeGrand: Well, I'm not sure. I mean, my approach was to find a qualified law firm like Lavely Singer, Brian Wolf and Marty Singer, and, you know, have them engauge the appropriate talent, as needed, around the world.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, was that done?
David LeGrand: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall a project proposal involving Apple computer during this period of time?
David LeGrand: I remember some discussion about Apple computer, and that Steve Jobs and Michael had a personal relationship, and that there might be some commercial opportunity with Apple, but I don't recall the details of any proposal.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And to your knowledge to date, Mr. Jackson has never gone bankrupt, has he?
David LeGrand: I'm not aware of Mr. Jackson filing a petition in a federal bankruptcy court for relief, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember your firm issuing a letter to the team suggesting that no business proposals were to go directly to Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: I don't specifically recall that letter, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall a draft letter to come from your firm to someone named Meskin?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall the letter said no proposals are to go directly to Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And why was that?
David LeGrand: Mr. Meskin was one of the people present at the dinner party at Director Robert Evans' house, and I was not impressed with his approach. I did not think the terms he was suggesting to Howard Fishman and I were anything that Mr. Jackson should consider. And I was concerned, because during that dinner party, Mr. Meskin and Mr. Evans managed to take Mr. Jackson off, away from Mr. Fishman and I, for a short period, 20 minutes, half an hour. And I found out later that they tried to get him to sign --
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you find out in that regard that efforts were made to get Mr. Jackson to sign documents?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Hearsay; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember, when you were brought in to represent Mr. Jackson, Konitzer and Weizner telling you they intended to gain control of Mr. Jackson's financial affairs?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember at that time Konitzer and Weizner telling you they wanted to gain control of Mr. Jackson's records, documents, and agreements?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember, when you were brought on board, Konitzer and Weizner telling you they wanted to gain control of anything belonging to Mr. Jackson?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll make the same objection. And leading.
The Court: Overruled.
David LeGrand: In general, Mr. Konitzer and Mr. Weizner wanted to take over management, overall management, of Michael Jackson's business affairs, financial affairs, and implement a new business plan for Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: And they essentially told you in writing they wanted to control everything Mr. Jackson owned, right?
David LeGrand: For the benefit of Mr. Jackson, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, you then concluded they were doing it for their own benefit, didn't you?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Argumentative; leading; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You were retained in approximately January of 2003, right?
David LeGrand: End of January, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long did it take you to grow suspicious of what Konitzer and Weizner were doing to Mr. Jackson?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Argumentative; leading; and asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: Weeks. I mean, whether it was four weeks or six weeks, I'm not sure. But certainly by the end of February, early March period, I was very suspicious, and I'm not sure of the time frame. The first investigative report that I got just increased my degree of suspicion. But at the same time that some of this was going on with respect to my concerns about Mr. Konitzer and Mr. Weizner, Mr. Malnik had entered the scene and was asserting --
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; narrative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Who is Mr. Malnik?
David LeGrand: He's a -- well, he's an individual who lives in Florida.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you suspicious of anything he was doing involving Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: Because I did not know Mr. Malnik, I was suspicious of him. I mean, I --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object to an improper opinion; no foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
David LeGrand: I became -- you know, I became suspicious of everybody. It seems that everybody wanted to try to benefit from Mr. Jackson one way or another. But I did eventually cause the investigative service to give us some background on Mr. Malnik. But he is -- the report indicated he's a very wealthy man.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You grew suspicious of what Marc Schaffel was doing to Mr. Jackson at some point, correct?
David LeGrand: I grew suspicious that Mr. Schaffel was seeking to benefit from Mr. Jackson or being -- in relationship to Mr. Jackson. My suspicion of Mr. Schaffel was different than my suspicion of Mr. Konitzer or Mr. Weizner.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have much involvement with Mr. Schaffel in your work?
David LeGrand: I had a fair amount of involvement with Mr. Schaffel at the very beginning of the development of the “Take 2” production. And I was constantly trying to get Marc Schaffel out of the loop. I was trying to avoid his involvement or minimize his involvement in Mr. Jackson's affairs, and it was a struggle.
Mr. Mesereau: But did you ever meet Schaffel?
David LeGrand: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you meet him?
David LeGrand: I think I met him at his house the Friday night before the 60 Minutes Saturday at Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: And why were you at Schaffel's home?
David LeGrand: To -- because he had had conversations with Jack Sussman about CBS purchasing some of the rights to the footage. At that time, there wasn't a “Take 2”, but we had footage. And so I met with Marc for that purpose, to discuss the -- and also, I think I looked at some of the footage at that time. I actually -- they had some of it on a screen, and I was able to watch some of the footage of Martin Bashir and Michael.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was this, do you think?
David LeGrand: I think it was the first weeked in February of 2003. I'm not sure whether that's the 7th, 8th or 9th, but it was around that first full weekend in February.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that Schaffel was involved in the production of the “Take 2” program?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you learn that?
David LeGrand: I guess one answer is to say Marc Schaffel told me, but he's the one who had -- well, I believe he's the one that worked to arrange the Ian Drew interview with Debbie Rowe and coordinate Hamid from I Films to film that interview.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you involved in anything involving the Debbie Rowe interview?
David LeGrand: Well, yes. We were involved with the preparation and exchange of documents to allow Debbie Rowe to engage in the interview and allow her image to be broadcast.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you draft those documents?
David LeGrand: Well, I participated in them. Actually, my assistant, my associate, Ann-Marie Levy, really did most of the work on that with Iris Finsilver. I did speak to Iris Finsilver, you know, a couple times, I think. She was the counsel for Debbie Rowe.
Mr. Mesereau: And were your relations with her very professional?
David LeGrand: Well, I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Did there seem to be any objection on this lawyer's part to Debbie Rowe being interviewed?
David LeGrand: She didn't express any objection to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you there when Debbie Rowe was interviewed?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you learn about it at some point?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you learn about it?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure today who told me. It was probably Schaffel. Might have been Konitzer.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you involved in any of the filming of the Arvizo family for purposes of “Take 2”?
David LeGrand: No. I was never present during any filming of anybody for “Take 2”.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall talking to anyone who spoke on behalf of the Arvizos when it came to their being filmed as part of the “Take 2” project?
David LeGrand: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Is your meeting -- excuse me. Is the time I described, where you saw Janet at Neverland, the only time you recall ever physically seeing her?
David LeGrand: I think that's right. I might have seen her again somewhere else, but I really don't have a specific recollection.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember ever talking to Janet Arvizo on the phone?
David LeGrand: As I indicated earlier, I'm not sure if I actually spoke with her or if I was speaking to one of the people working with Schaffel. There were a couple people that were working on various pieces of that filming. And I just -- I'm sorry, I don't remember specifically whether I spoke with Mrs. Arvizo or not.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall, in your discussions with representatives of FOX television regarding the “Take 2” project, whether or not the name “Arvizo” ever came up?
David LeGrand: Yeah, I'm pretty sure it did. Because we needed -- again, anybody who's going to be in, you know, a televisual production needs to sign a consent, a release for the use of their image. And if -- if the Arvizos were going to have any footage included, there had to be a release.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall, in your discussions with the distribution company, Lachman Productions, the name “Arvizo” ever coming up?
David LeGrand: Well, I think it did, again in the context of we needed appearance consents and releases from everybody, because we had footage that had a lot of people in it. We were concerned -- there was one set of footage that had a bunch of kids at Neverland, and we were concerned about those appearance consents.
Mr. Mesereau: You mentioned an individual named Haber, correct?
David LeGrand: Yep. Fred Haber.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember ever discussing the Arvizos with Mr. Haber?
David LeGrand: I'm just not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: As far as you're concerned, given all of the communications you had with all of these parties about the “Take 2” project, was it any secret that the Arvizos were going to possibly participate?
David LeGrand: I'm not aware of any secret about it, no.
Mr. Mesereau: In fact, the possibility of the Arvizos participating in the “Take 2” project was something that was discussed constantly, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, was anyone that you spoke with trying to keep the fact that the Arvizos might participate in the “Take 2” project a secret?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when do you think you first learned that there might be a possibility of the Arvizos participating in this television documentary involving Maury Povich?
David LeGrand: Oh, I'm not sure. I mean, early February. Mid-February. Some -- sometime in that time frame. This all went very quickly. I think the production aired by the end of February, so this was a very short time frame.
Mr. Mesereau: But certainly your discussions with representatives of FOX television indicated that people at FOX thought the Arvizos might participate, right?
David LeGrand: I don't know about FOX. I think Brad Lachman Productions, but I don't remember talking about it with Marisa Fermin.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you learn at some point that the Arvizo family had participated in an interview for purposes of the “Take 2” project?
David LeGrand: I believe some footage did get shot, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see it?
David LeGrand: I never saw that footage, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember learning from someone that they had participated in an interview?
David LeGrand: Yes. I'm just not sure when.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if you were at Schaffel's home before or after you learned the Arvizos had been interviewed?
David LeGrand: Oh, I'm pretty sure it was before, because -- yeah, I'm pretty sure it was before.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at the period of time you're talking about, when this “Take 2” project is being produced, to your knowledge, are the Arvizos still parties to the lawsuit in England?
David LeGrand: No, they're not. No, they're not. And I believe the complaint with the Standards Board on their behalf was also withdrawn, but I'm not sure about that.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point, did you learn the Arvizos had hired a lawyer in Los Angeles?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when you learned the Arvizos had gone to a lawyer in Los Angeles?
David LeGrand: I think it was the spring of 2004 that I was contacted by a lawyer who stated he represented the Arvizos. I'm not sure, you know, whether that was February, March, April, but I think it was the spring of '04.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember ever hearing from a lawyer named Dickerman?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you learn at some point that a lawyer named Dickerman in Los Angeles was representing the Arvizos?
David LeGrand: Yeah, Mr. Dickerman contacted me in that -- I think it was spring of '04.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ever learn that at some point in time after they hired Attorney Dickerman, they hired Attorney Larry Feldman?
David LeGrand: I never had any contact with Mr. Feldman. I think if I know that, it's only from the press.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever speak to Dickerman directly --
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- involving the Arvizos? How many times do you think you did that?
David LeGrand: Two, maybe three times did I speak with him. We exchanged some letters.
Mr. Mesereau: And at some point, he made a request that the Arvizos no longer participate in the British litigation, true?
David LeGrand: Yes. Well, you have to excuse me. There's the litigation and there's the Broadcasting Standards Board complaints, and I'd really want to review the document. When I say “yes”, it's -- I know he wanted them -- he wanted the Broadcasting Standards Board complaint process terminated with respect to the Arvizos. I'm just not sure that they were parties to the litigation against Granada. I just -- it's been a long time.
The Court: All right. Let's take our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. LeGrand, you have an exhibit book in front of you. Would you please turn to Tab 36. Your Honor, I believe the next exhibit, defense exhibit, would be No. 5037, which would be this document.
The Court: All right. Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. LeGrand, please take a look at that document, if you would.
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you seen that document before?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And please describe that document.
David LeGrand: It's charts and diagrams and text outlining kind of a business structure for Michael Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: And it appears that you faxed that document to various individuals on March 14th, 2003, correct?
David LeGrand: Yeah. Well, it appears that it was faxed to Mr. Al Malnik.
Mr. Mesereau: But you appear to be the -- it appears to have been faxed from your office, right?
David LeGrand: Oh, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, when did you first see that document?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure. I think I saw an iteration of this document in late 2002. This was a business plan outline that Mr. Konitzer had been working on for some time.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that Konitzer put this document together?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what is your understanding based on?
David LeGrand: He sent this to me. Mr. Konitzer gave this to me.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when do you think he did that?
David LeGrand: Well, again, this iteration I'm going to say happened in probably February, but this is -- again, this was a document that got edited over time. But I think this generation, because of some references in it, time references, I think show late February, maybe early March.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Mr. Konitzer tell you he was developing this document?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when was that?
David LeGrand: I'm guessing. You know, sometime February, early March of '03.
Mr. Mesereau: And correct me if I'm wrong, the document appears to be a business plan for Mr. Jackson, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And if you look through the document, it appears to have what is referred to as a diagram of a business structure, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: It talks about Mr. Jackson and his family, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object as leading. And hearsay as far as the document is concerned.
The Court: Sustained.
The Bailiff: You need to turn your microphone on as well.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. LeGrand, please look at what appears to be the third page of that document, okay? The Bates stamp number appears to be MJ020806. Do you see that?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And it says, “How to protect MJ from business infection”. Do you see that?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Hearsay and leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall reading this document when you received it?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And why did you read it?
David LeGrand: Because it was given to me for my review, and it affected my client, Michael Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: And this is the -- a copy of the actual document that Konitzer sent you, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And after you read it, did you discuss it with Mr. Konitzer?
David LeGrand: I don't recall a specific conversation about this document, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall that one of the plans Mr. Konitzer had for Mr. Jackson was to isolate him from involvement?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Hearsay and leading.
The Court: The hearsay is sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Please turn to page -- Bates stamp MJ020810, if you would.
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And it's entitled, “Michael's involvement”, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Hearsay; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember having any discussions with Mr. Konitzer about Michael Jackson's involvement in the new business plan?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were there any discussions about whether or not Michael Jackson should be involved in briefings, formalities, procedures, et cetera?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Hearsay; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether or not you had any discussions with Mr. Konitzer about whether Michael Jackson needed to be involved in daily briefings?
Mr. Auchincloss: Same objection.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You've seen that document before, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall any discussions with Mr. Konitzer about how involved Mr. Jackson should be in the new business?
Mr. Auchincloss: Same objection.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever say anything to Mr. Konitzer about to what extent Mr. Jackson should be involved in the new business plan?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you say?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Mr. Konitzer's plan, to the best of your knowledge, involve any considerations about how much Mr. Jackson should be involved in his own business dealings?
Mr. Auchincloss: Same objection.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. LeGrand, Konitzer didn't want Michael Jackson involved at all in the details of his business, did he?
Mr. Auchincloss: Same objection. Ask counsel to move off this subject. Ask the Court to admonish counsel.
Bailiff Cortez: Your microphone's off, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm sorry. Same objection and ask the Court to admonish counsel to move off of this subject.
The Court: I think that question was asked and answered earlier this morning, so I'll sustain it on that ground.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Is the document in front of you that's been identified as Exhibit 5037 prepared in the normal course of business, to your knowledge?
David LeGrand: As normal as business was, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you faxed it off to Mr. Malnik, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And why did you do that?
David LeGrand: Because I thought Mr. Malnik at that point was advising Mr. Jackson on business matters. And I thought it very much appropriate for Mr. Malnik to see this document.
Mr. Mesereau: Is Exhibit 5037 the actual document you faxed to Mr. Malnik on March 14th, 2003?
David LeGrand: To the best of my recollection, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss the document with Mr. Malnik at any point?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when was that, do you think?
David LeGrand: I would guess within a day or two of this fax. Maybe that day, but I don't know for sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall discussing Exhibit 5037 with anyone besides Mr. Malnik and Mr. Konitzer?
David LeGrand: Oh, I'm -- I believe I discussed this with my partner, Pete Gibson.
Mr. Mesereau: And why did you do that?
David LeGrand: I found this document to be somewhat disturbing. It seems amateurish. You know, I already had misgivings about Mr. Konitzer's sophistication and capabilities, and this document simply reinforced those concerns.
Mr. Mesereau: After you read the document, what were you concerned about?
David LeGrand: Well --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object that this is going to be a commentary of what's enclosed within the document.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions at this time, Your Honor.
The Court: Okay.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Good afternoon, Mr. LeGrand.
David LeGrand: Good afternoon. We made it to the afternoon.
Mr. Auchincloss: Just barely. So tell me, how is it that you became employed by Michael Jackson?
David LeGrand: Mr. Konitzer had talked to me about whether I would be interested in assisting with the implementation of this new business plan for Mr. Jackson, and then Mr. Konitzer called me and asked me to come to Florida and meet Mr. Jackson to discuss representation.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you knew Mr. Konitzer through a company named Hi-Tec?
David LeGrand: Hi-Tec America.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what is Hi-Tec America?
David LeGrand: I don't know what it is. A few years ago it was a company Mr. Konitzer had that was involved in developing a manufactured building process.
Mr. Auchincloss: And is that company based in Canada?
David LeGrand: Yeah, Mr. Konitzer lives in Canada, and the manufacturing company was in Canada, but Mr. Konitzer was interested in developing business in the United States when I first met him.
Mr. Auchincloss: And how is it that he came to employ your services for Hi-Tec America?
David LeGrand: He was introduced to me by another person that I knew in Florida. And we discussed, you know, what his needs were, and I -- at the time I was with a law firm and we agreed to represent him.
Mr. Auchincloss: What were you doing in Florida at the time?
David LeGrand: I really wasn't in Florida. I had done a transaction with some people in Florida, and one of those people subsequently introduced Mr. Konitzer to me.
Mr. Auchincloss: And at some point Mr. Konitzer called you and informed you that he'd like you to work on behalf of Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did he introduce you to Michael Jackson?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Where did that introduction take place?
David LeGrand: At the -- I think it's the Turnberry Hotel project in Florida.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did that introduction take place in February of 2003?
David LeGrand: Yes. No, I think it was January.
Mr. Auchincloss: January of 2003?
David LeGrand: Yeah. I don't think it was quite February. I think it was the last weekend in January.
Mr. Auchincloss: And when Mr. Konitzer contacted you with regard to your services, exactly what did he inform you of in terms of what the expectation would be of your duties, what duties you'd perform for Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: The phone call that precipitated my going to meet Mr. Jackson at the Turnberry was focused on the Bashir broadcast. And what Mr. Konitzer said to me was that Michael's lawyers had told him there was nothing they could do to help him deal with Granada or Martin Bashir, and he asked me to come and meet Michael and see if there was anything that I could do or suggest to assist Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: So in January. Do you have any recollection of the exact date we're talking about?
David LeGrand: I just know that I flew to Florida just before the last weekend in January. I'm not sure if that's the 27th or the 29th. But it was the last week of January.
Mr. Auchincloss: So it would have been immediately before. Do you mean like a Friday, a Thursday? Do you have an idea?
David LeGrand: Yeah, I think I arrived there either Wednesday night or Thursday. I'm not sure exactly.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And you met Mr. Jackson. Where did that meeting take place?
David LeGrand: At the Turnberry. He had a suite at the Turnberry.
Mr. Auchincloss: In his suite?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was Mr. Konitzer there?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was Mr. Weizner at that meeting?
David LeGrand: I believe he was there for the initial meeting, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: What do you mean by that? Did he leave at some point?
David LeGrand: That first day, I think I had two meetings with Mr. Jackson. And I'm not sure that Mr. Weizner was present at both. I think there were two meetings.
Mr. Auchincloss: How many days did you stay at the Turnberry?
David LeGrand: I didn't stay at the Turnberry.
Mr. Auchincloss: How many days did you stay in Florida?
David LeGrand: It was four or five. I returned to Las Vegas that Sunday, the last Sunday in January of '03.
Mr. Auchincloss: And in those four or five days, how many meetings did you have with Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: Hmm.
Mr. Auchincloss: You mentioned two so far, I guess, the first day.
David LeGrand: Three or four. I'm really not exactly sure. One of them was the lengthy telephone conference day.
Mr. Auchincloss: Tell me about that. What day did the telephone conference take place?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure if it was Friday or Saturday, with the solicitor and the barristers in the UK.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know -- do you know if Hamid Moslehi was in Florida at the time you were there?
David LeGrand: I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know if the Arvizo family was in Florida at the time you were there?
David LeGrand: I don't know. I don't believe so, but I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever meet Ian Drew?
David LeGrand: I think I eventually met Ian Drew, but I'm not sure when. I don't believe I met him in Florida, though.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So tell me about this conference call day. You said it involved the professionals in England?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were you in a room where a conference call -- the conference call phone was?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who else was present in that room?
David LeGrand: Mr. Jackson. Mr. Konitzer. I just don't remember if Mr. Weizner was present or not.
Mr. Auchincloss: Anybody else?
David LeGrand: There were other people who came in and out. I mean, there was a bodyguard. Mike -- I just knew him as Mike. I really wasn't focused on anybody else. We had a table with a phone, and we spent close to two hours going over the Granada documents and the issues associated with going after Granada.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you discuss the public relations aspect of the Bashir documentary on Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: There was some discussion that there was, you know, likely to be, you know, increased PR, and the solicitor/barrister team in the UK wanted to engage a PR firm.
Mr. Auchincloss: So was Bell Yard employed at that time?
David LeGrand: I don't think so. I think this was preliminary discussion. The UK folks weren't even 100 percent sure that they would follow through with taking any action. They really -- this was -- it was a very significant conversation, but it was also exploratory on their part.
Mr. Auchincloss: And was Mr. Jackson concerned about the fallout in a public relations sense from the Martin Bashir film?
David LeGrand: I don't recall Mr. Jackson making a specific statement about being concerned about the fallout from the Bashir film. He seemed very concerned about the -- blurring the images of his children, of wanting to enforce his agreement with Mr. Bashir to edit -- to screen the video and edit the video before it was aired.
Mr. Auchincloss: Let's talk about the agreements that you reviewed concerning the Bashir film. You expressed some concern after reviewing those agreements, true?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you discuss those concerns with Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, you were employed as Mr. Jackson's attorney, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Your fiduciary responsibility was to him?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: To him alone?
David LeGrand: To him and his affiliated companies, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So you owed no responsibility to Mr. Konitzer or Mr. Weizner?
David LeGrand: As part of our representation of Mr. Jackson, we specifically disclosed to Mr. Konitzer that we would no longer, you know, provide any representation to him, and we just had a conflict disclosure document.
Mr. Auchincloss: To avoid a conflict of interest?
David LeGrand: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: And do you have any sense of why Mr. Konitzer chose you to become a part of this team?
David LeGrand: He stated to me that he appreciated that I had a perspective more of a businessman than a lawyer in some of our discussions, and that he wanted the kind of breadth of experience that I brought. That was what he expressed to me.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you have a sense that he liked you?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you like Mr. Konitzer at the time?
David LeGrand: Yes. I found Ronald to be pleasant and engaging.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, did you ever have a discussion with Mr. -- I'll back up. I think you did mention that you had a discussion with Mr. Jackson about entering into the agreement to do the Bashir interview.
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did Mr. Jackson tell you that Martin Bashir was responsible for the Princess Diana documentary?
David LeGrand: I don't think Mr. Jackson told me that, but somebody else did. I'm not sure who, but I did know that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did Mr. Jackson inform you that doing an interview with Mr. Bashir could be something that could reignite or renew his career?
Mr. Mesereau: Calls for speculation.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm asking if Mr. Jackson informed him of that.
David LeGrand: No, Mr. Jackson never made such a statement.
The Court: I'm sorry, there's an objection pending. You need to rephrase the question, please.
Mr. Auchincloss: My question is, did Mr. Jackson ever inform you that he did the Martin Bashir interview because he perceived it to be a positive public relations opportunity to help renew his career?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did Mr. Jackson ever indicate that Martin Bashir was unwilling to do the interview in a fashion in which Mr. Jackson would be paid?
David LeGrand: I don't believe Mr. Jackson ever made that statement to me. He did confirm to me that he did not expect money from -- you know, payment for the production; that he had agreed to do that without a fee. He --
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And you mentioned you had some experience in business aspects of preparation of legal documents and such for these types of documentaries?
David LeGrand: No. I indicated that I really had not had substantive experience in entertainment law.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, then, how is it that you were able to form an opinion that these documents were inadequate?
David LeGrand: Because, from my experience in general commercial business, a vague, one-paragraph agreement is simply inadequate under any circumstance for just about any transaction, let alone something of this type. Secondly, I very quickly consulted with the Paul Hastings firm and had Mr. John Genga review the documents and discussed with him the agreements.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, are you aware that Mr. Jackson has engaged in numerous enterprises similar to this one that he engaged in with Mr. Bashir?
David LeGrand: I'm really not aware of the scope of Mr. Jackson's enterprises.
Mr. Auchincloss: You're aware he's an entertainer, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And that he engages in numerous contracts and business negotiations involving entertainment?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you realize that this particular documentary was a form of entertainment intended to be broadcast internationally on televisions, correct?
David LeGrand: Yeah. I'm not sure about “entertainment”, but, yes, I agree it was a production for broadcast.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And are you aware of the -- any policy or custom among journalists not to pay for interviews of this type?
David LeGrand: Yes. I am aware that journalists generally -- that's why I questioned the word “entertainment”, because my experience and understanding is that entertainment, they do pay. When it's news, documentary, interview, there is not payment customarily.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Fair enough. Now, during the discussions with Mr. Jackson -- I want to get back to this perception. Did Mr. Jackson in any way perceive this documentary to present him in a positive light?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; calls for speculation.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll rephrase that. That's fair.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did he ever indicate that to you, that he perceived that this production was going to portray him in a positive light?
David LeGrand: Mr. Jackson expressed to me the language in the one -- in these agreements that Mr. Bashir was to -- and I'm paraphrasing. Mr. Bashir was to produce a documentary reflective of Mr. Jackson's life as Mr. Jackson knew it. Mr. Jackson's statement to me was that he felt very comfortable with Martin Bashir during the production of the -- you know, the various filmings, and that he expected Mr. Bashir to honor Mr. Bashir's agreement to allow Mr. Jackson to review the final footage and have some input to the final footage. We, the various lawyers, asked Mr. Jackson several times to explain what he meant by, you know, “faithful to his life as he knew it”, and Mr. Jackson didn't use the word “positive”. He expected accuracy, sincerity in this documentary.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. But is it safe to say that he saw this as a public relations opportunity?
David LeGrand: I don't know what he saw it as.
Mr. Auchincloss: Has Mr. Jackson ever expressed to you the public relations maxim that there is no such thing as bad publicity?
David LeGrand: Mr. Jackson never made such a statement to me.
Mr. Auchincloss: And in terms of the interview with Mr. Jackson, did you, as the lawyer, as Mr. Jackson's lawyer -- you said you saw this particular production, correct?
David LeGrand: I did eventually see it later. I think it was like, you know, the week later, but yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you certainly had a front row seat for the repercussions that ensued; fair to say?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And would you agree that this production was a public relations disaster for Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: I don't have a lot to judge by on the scale of PR events, but clearly this had a lot of negative aspects from the press. The initial press in the UK was very negative about Mr. Jackson. The initial press in the United States was, you know, very negative. There were, you know, what I would call talking heads, various people clamoring for an investigation of Mr. Jackson. There were people saying his children should be removed from his custody. I mean, so it was very negative. I mean, you know --
Mr. Auchincloss: Does that fit your definition of a disaster?
David LeGrand: It comes pretty darned close.
Mr. Auchincloss: You yourself used the word “a media frenzy”. Is that what you described it as?
David LeGrand: Yeah.
Mr. Auchincloss: And that everything was frantic?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And it was all negative, true?
David LeGrand: Yeah. There were certainly some people who were standing up for Mr. Jackson, and there were certainly people who were highly negative of Martin Bashir's voiceovers, the editing. There was -- largely negative. But there were certainly some people saying, “Hey, wait a minute. This was a hatchet job”.
Mr. Auchincloss: Let me just rephrase it. I'm not talking about the people who were reacting to -- maybe reacting negatively towards Mr. Bashir. I'm talking about the people's reaction to this film. The people who saw this film or reacting to this film had a negative impression of Mr. Jackson?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; asked and answered.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll strike that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, you just said it was a hatchet job. Was it a hatchet job -- let's back up a moment. Isn't it a fact that the media frenzy, the bulk of this negative public relations disaster or whatever comes close to a disaster, dealt with Mr. Jackson's admission to the world that he liked to sleep with little boys? That was one of the major outcries; isn't that fair to say?
David LeGrand: I think that's fair to say.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Martin Bashir did not misrepresent that, did he? Michael Jackson actually said that, and he repeated it, didn't he?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; calls for speculation.
The Court: Overruled.
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: There's no confusion over what Michael Jackson likes to do with young boys, and that's what upset the world; fair to say?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Argumentative; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll strike it.
Mr. Auchincloss: And there was also a tremendous amount of negative public attention towards the fact that Mr. Jackson hung his child out over the balcony; isn't that true?
David LeGrand: That's true.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Jackson actually did that, didn't he?
David LeGrand: As far as I know.
Mr. Auchincloss: I mean, Martin Bashir didn't make that happen, did he?
David LeGrand: I wasn't there, I didn't see it, but certainly that's what I've seen on the video.
Mr. Auchincloss: So there's nothing unfair about Martin Bashir's commentary regarding that?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Calls for -- excuse me. Argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: There was also a tremendous amount of negative attention given to Mr. Jackson's remarks about surgeries that he's had, and just people not believing he was being honest about that, isn't that true, one of the things that people were concerned about?
David LeGrand: You know, I find it difficult to answer about -- questions about what people thought. I mean, what I know is what I saw reported in the press.
Mr. Auchincloss: And that's where --
David LeGrand: It's hard for me to say what's in people's minds. But I did see printed articles questioning the veracity of Mr. Jackson with respect to the number of surgeries.
Mr. Auchincloss: And there was concern about the issues dealing with his children and keeping them from their mother, or not having a mother for his children, whether that was a good thing?
David LeGrand: There were certainly some commentators who wrote about that issue.
Mr. Auchincloss: And there was concern about the issue dealing with the kids at the zoo, the threat to the safety of his children when they went to the zoo and there was somewhat of a media frenzy at that location?
David LeGrand: Yeah, I remember some commentators questioning the propriety of that zoo trip.
Mr. Auchincloss: And weren't these the very things that the media was most focused on in terms of this media frenzy? I mean, this list that I've given you? There are probably others, but --
David LeGrand: If you're asking me for my assessment of the media, I'd say you fairly well categorized the bulk of what was the uproar at that time, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Now, do you know how long Mr. Jackson's relationship with Dieter Weizner, how far it preexisted your involvement with Michael Jackson?
David LeGrand: No, I don't. I mean, I don't know when that relationship began.
Mr. Auchincloss: What about Mr. Konitzer?
David LeGrand: Mr. Konitzer told me that he met Mr. Jackson through Mr. Weizner, and I believe that was in early 2002. But it could have been late '01, but it was that time frame. It was not, you know, back in the 1990s.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know why there was a decision to clean house at this particular juncture in Mr. Jackson's -- Mr. Jackson's business?
David LeGrand: Well, I know what Mr. Jackson told me. And I know what Mr. Konitzer told me.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Why don't you just tell me what Mr. Jackson told you.
David LeGrand: Mr. Jackson told me that he no longer had confidence in John Branca. He was not pleased with Barry Siegel's handling of funds. And he was very interested and enthusiastic about the Konitzer ten-year MJ universe business plan.
Mr. Auchincloss: The MJ business plan was largely a plan to try and reinvent Mr. Jackson as a superstar, wasn't it?
David LeGrand: To a degree, yes. I mean, originally the plan was premised upon acquiring a controlling interest in Marvel.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm sorry? Marvel?
David LeGrand: Marvel. Spiderman.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
David LeGrand: Fantastic Four, et cetera.
Mr. Auchincloss: And there was -- part of this was to market Michael Jackson's name and image in various other products? Was that part of the MJ universe scheme of things?
David LeGrand: Yes, that was part of it.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Dieter Weizner had been involved in marketing Michael Jackson products for a long period of time; isn't that true?
David LeGrand: Yeah. I don't know for how long, but, yes, he was certainly involved, especially in Germany, in distribution of products.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Michael Jackson had a long business relationship with Mr. Weizner, didn't he?
David LeGrand: Yeah. Again, I don't know how long, but it -- from the paperwork I saw later, it was certainly a couple of years.
Mr. Auchincloss: And based upon what you saw, you understood that Michael Jackson trusted Mr. Weizner based upon a long-standing business relationship, correct?
David LeGrand: Again, I don't know how long-standing. Certainly Mr. Jackson seemed to have a good relationship with Mr. Weizner.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And Mr. Konitzer certainly had a longer relationship with Mr. Jackson than you did; fair to say?
David LeGrand: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And in part of this cleaning of house, Mr. Jackson decided to personally fire his attorney who he had been with for more than a decade?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And he wrote a letter dismissing that attorney, didn't he?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: He decided to personally fire his business manager at the time?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And he personally took care of that as well?
David LeGrand: He executed documents that I delivered on his behalf, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you did that because that's what he told you he wanted to do?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: He personally fired his entertainment manager?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Again, part of the cleaning house; part of what he wanted you to do?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And then a month after hiring you, he personally fired you?
David LeGrand: Yes. Well, two months, three months. But yes, two months.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And in -- sometime in January, or before that time, he decided -- Mr. Jackson decided that he wanted to put Ronald Konitzer and Dieter Weizner in charge of his enterprises?
David LeGrand: Yes. That's what he told me.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes. That was his decision, correct?
David LeGrand: As far as I know.
Mr. Auchincloss: I mean, that's what Mr. Jackson told you, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And as his attorney, you mentioned that you had a fiduciary duty to him, and part of that fiduciary duty is to keep him informed of everything, correct?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure what “everything” is.
Mr. Auchincloss: Everything that is material, everything that is important, everything that is necessary for him to make informed decisions, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. So the month of February comes, and the Michael Jackson/Martin Bashir documentary airs. You said that things became frantic. Is that when things started to get frantic?
David LeGrand: The pace picked up immediately when I returned to Las Vegas from Florida and we began interviewing for the replacement of the money manager.
Mr. Auchincloss: And ultimately you settled on Ed Gross?
David LeGrand: I think it's Ed Grossman.
Mr. Auchincloss: Ed Grossman? Was that Michael Jackson's decision, based upon your advice, to choose Ed Grossman?
David LeGrand: It was Ronald Konitzer. We discussed it. I know we had a phone call with Mr. Jackson; asked him if he wanted us to go ahead with that recommendation.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you inform him of all the particulars regarding that decision in hiring Ed Grossman?
David LeGrand: Well, he had already told me, when I was in Florida, that he wanted to --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm sorry. Who --
David LeGrand: Mr. Jackson had told me, when he was in Florida, that he wanted Barry Siegel to go and someone else to be engaged.
Mr. Auchincloss: So did he --
David LeGrand: And he told us to find somebody, you know, appropriate.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And did he ultimately okay or make the decision to go with Ed Grossman?
David LeGrand: I don't remember a specific, “Yes, go with Ed Grossman” conversation. I know that Ed Grossman met with Barry Siegel. Barry Siegel requested authority from Mr. Jackson for transferring, and we provided that authority in the form of a document signed by Mr. Jackson to Mr. Siegel instructing him to transfer.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So Mr. Jackson signed a document basically instructing that the transfer of his business management interests were going to Ed Grossman?
David LeGrand: Well, the cash management.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yeah. The cash management. Ed Grossman is International Business Management, correct?
David LeGrand: I think so, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: IBM, right? So that transaction can't occur without Mr. Jackson's permission, correct?
David LeGrand: Well, Mr. Konitzer and Dieter Weizner had a limited power of attorney. I'm not sure, as I sit here, whether that was within the scope of power or not, whether they could have done that. But my belief is, my recollection is that Mr. Jackson authorized the transfer to Ed Grossman, International Business Management.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you prepare that limited power of attorney?
David LeGrand: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you have no recollection of whether it gives him -- gives Ronald Konitzer the authority to make that transfer on his own?
David LeGrand: I know there were some limitations on what the authority was, but I don't remember the specifics. I haven't looked at that document now for a very long time.
Mr. Auchincloss: And do you recall who directed you as to what limitations were to be placed on Mr. Konitzer regarding that power of attorney?
David LeGrand: Actually, I was the one who created limitations, and I specifically consulted with Mr. Jackson about that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you consider Mr. Jackson to be intelligent, an intelligent person?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: When he had business discussions with you, would he ask intelligent questions?
David LeGrand: Some times more than others. But, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: So we go into the month of February. Did this public relations frenzy get better, or worse, or stay the same? You tell me.
David LeGrand: I'm not sure that I can characterize it. It was certainly bad. And as the program aired in the U.S., you know, there was continued press. I'm not sure how long that press, that -- you know, that continued.
Mr. Auchincloss: At some point you brought Ann Gabriel on?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: That was your decision?
David LeGrand: Not mine alone. I --
Mr. Auchincloss: Who else participated in that?
David LeGrand: Mr. Konitzer.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you recommend Ann Gabriel?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And she was to help out with the U.S. public relations end of things; is that correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And we're talking about crisis management here, aren't we, in terms of public relations? Public relations crisis management?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And eventually -- was Bell Yard hired before Ann Gabriel came on?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Bell Yard is a crisis management public relations outfit, correct?
David LeGrand: It's certainly among their qualifications. They do a variety of PR work.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you ever seen their letterhead?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And their letterhead says “Crisis Management” --
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- doesn't it?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So this was a public relations crisis, true?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Mr. Jackson was certainly aware of that?
David LeGrand: I believe so, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So at some point Ann Gabriel felt that the public relations end of things was being mishandled in the United States; isn't that true?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: She told you or basically she informed you about the idea that Mr. Jackson should be more proactive?
David LeGrand: Yes. That was her position.
Mr. Auchincloss: And there was a sentiment among Mr. Jackson's people that this should be -- that they should not be proactive and that they should hunker down and weather this storm out?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
Mr. Auchincloss: That's probably true. I'm not specific enough.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was there a consensus among anybody in Michael Jackson's inner circle that this storm should be weathered by hunkering down and avoiding the spotlight?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure there was consensus. There was certainly voices, you know, on all sides of how to address the PR aspects.
Mr. Auchincloss: But hunkering down was viewed as a legitimate PR strategy; is that true?
David LeGrand: Yeah --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
David LeGrand: Oh, sorry.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: Yes. I mean, subsequently Mr. Dezenhall was engaged, and his advice consistently was to, as you say, hunker down.
Mr. Auchincloss: And he was the man who replaced Ann Gabriel, correct?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure I would use the word “replaced”. But Eric was certainly engaged to shoulder a significant portion of the PR strategy responsibility.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, as the month of February went on, were there other public relations issues that added to the media frenzy?
David LeGrand: I don't recall. Do you have an example?
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, let's talk about the 60 Minutes interview, the planned 60 Minutes interview at Neverland. Do you remember about the date that that was to take place?
David LeGrand: I think it was the first full weekend in February.
Mr. Auchincloss: And would you agree that it's a bad idea from a public relations standpoint to agree to have 60 Minutes interview you, have them come out, set up, bring their whole staff out to the West Coast, Ed Bradley, and then not show up for the interview?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. I'll back up a little bit.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Jackson didn't show up to the 60 Minutes interview, did he?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: You were there when 60 Minutes was preparing to shoot an interview with Michael Jackson, correct?
David LeGrand: I was at Neverland at that time, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Did 60 Minutes ever shoot that interview featuring Ed Bradley and Michael Jackson?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: And the reason for that is because Michael Jackson didn't show up for the interview, correct?
David LeGrand: You can't shoot an interview if the interviewee is not cooperative.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes. And he decided to change his mind and not do that interview?
David LeGrand: That's my understanding, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And one of the reasons for that was because the Complaint regarding the Jordie Chandler case had just come out on The Smoking Gun; isn't that true?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike.
Mr. Auchincloss: That's fair.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know -- well, let me start over again. The Jordie Chandler Complaint had just been published on The Smoking Gun, the Internet source for various documents; isn't that true?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Are you aware if there was a publication of Mr. Jackson's -- or I should say Jordie Chandler's Complaint against Michael Jackson on The Smoking Gun at that time?
David LeGrand: I remember that there was some publication on The Smoking Gun of some Chandler-related materials, but I'm not sure that I knew of that when I was at Neverland on that Saturday or not. I'm not sure when I learned of that in relation to that day. I may have known it. I just don't remember.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were there also prominent articles regarding Mr. Jackson's distressed financial condition during the month of February 2003 that contributed to this media frenzy?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure whether “contributed” is the right word. I think they were part of the media attention to Mr. Jackson and his affairs, and yes, I remember some -- some postings and articles about his financial affairs.
Mr. Auchincloss: Let's talk a little bit about Mr. Jackson's financial affairs. You said you'd done quite a bit of research into this area?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure I said “research”. But I certainly exerted -- a considerable amount of my effort and attention went to getting a grasp of Mr. Jackson's financial situation and financial affairs.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So what would you call that?
David LeGrand: Well, I mean, “research” to me is -- you know, as a lawyer, “research” is kind of technical. You go to LexisNexis and such. But, you know, clearly I was trying to get up to speed and obtain knowledge in order to properly advise Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you became aware that Mr. Jackson had a $200 million loan with the Bank of America that encumbered or was pledged against his ATV catalog with Sony?
David LeGrand: Yeah. I think it's the other way around, though.
Mr. Auchincloss: The catalog --
David LeGrand: Mr. Jackson had pledged his ownership interest in the Sony/ATV joint venture. That's the pledge of the collateral to Bank of America.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes.
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: He had a $70 million loan for which he had pledged his interest in the MIJAC catalog with the Bank of America?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you were aware that Mr. Jackson had accrued this enormous debt to finance -- help finance his very expensive lifestyle?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure what I knew about how the debt accrued. And that's the only piece. I knew he accrued the debt and I knew he didn't have a lot of assets to show for the money that had been spent from those loans.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, didn't you write a letter to Mr. Jackson telling him that he's spending approximately $20,000 more every year than he makes, or I should say $20 million more every year than he makes?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: I have a hard time saying that.
David LeGrand: Yeah, I did write a letter. My analysis was more current. I just mean I didn't review his expenses going back for, you know, how the entire 200 million of debt came into existence. That's all I meant.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
David LeGrand: Clearly I was concerned about his current rate of expenditure versus the money he had available to cover those expenses.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you mentioned in that letter that you perceived Mr. Jackson to be on the verge of bankruptcy unless some action was taken, true?
David LeGrand: Yes, that's true.
Mr. Auchincloss: You also talk a little bit about the fact that he has $10 million in unpaid vendors, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Some of those bills go back years; is that fair to say?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; Court order.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: And as far as your testimony about the value of this ATV catalog, you said that you are not an expert in this area; isn't that accurate?
David LeGrand: Correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: You really have no idea about what Mr. Jackson's interest is in the ATV catalog, correct?
David LeGrand: I certainly have an idea. I can't say I'm a qualified business appraiser capable of fully evaluating that asset, no.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, are you aware that Bank of America at the time had a right of first refusal on that asset?
David LeGrand: I did find that out. I'm not sure exactly when. You know, these were a lot of documents that we had to digest, so this took a few weeks. But eventually I did come to learn that. But I'm not sure -- actually, I'm not so sure that the bank --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I misspoke.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. He's cutting off the witness.
Mr. Auchincloss: You can finish your answer.
David LeGrand: I don't think the bank had the right. I think Sony actually -- whether it was Sony or Sony/ATV itself had a first right on Mr. Jackson's interests.
Mr. Auchincloss: You're correct. I think I misspoke. I meant to say Sony. So Sony had a right of first refusal on that catalog?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: So he didn't have the right to sell it without Sony's permission, correct, or without giving Sony the right to buy it first?
David LeGrand: Yes, that's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And as far as your general knowledge of this -- I'm just looking back at some of the words you said. You said you're not up to speed on his interest in this catalog so you don't really know what it's worth.
David LeGrand: I looked at some of the public, you know, materials available about Sony and Sony/ATV. I did talk to a couple of people in the industry, just in general, about, you know, what do these catalogs sell for, what kind of value. At the time, this was during -- you know, I was very concerned about the value, though, because at the time we had the rise of the Internet and, you know, pirating of material, and so there was concern over the future of revenue streams to be derived from some of these large catalogs because of the piracy that was rampant.
Mr. Auchincloss: And that concerned these catalogs?
David LeGrand: So that affects catalog values. The right to first refusal affect catalog values. I mean, because it's not just the underlying asset. It wasn't that simple. You know, as most dealings involving hundreds of millions dollars are not simple. And so to say to someone, “Oh, you can write a check and buy this for X dollars”, it just wasn't that easy.
Mr. Auchincloss: And those concerns that you had were concerns that the catalog really wasn't worth what it had been previously appraised at, true?
David LeGrand: Well, I didn't know that. Let me put it this way: I believe that a best -- you know, a good, strong scenario existed to get to the numbers that I posited, that 200 million. But those were not meant to be precise. They were meant to be an illustration of what could be achieved. Sony had bought additional assets into that catalog. I had no way of knowing exactly at that moment in time what Sony had paid, what debts the catalog had to repay Sony for any of that investment. Sony was funding the enhancement of the catalog. They continued to put money in and purchase more assets. I have to believe that Sony were good businesspeople and that they were buying assets that had good value and would continue to have value. So -- but ultimately to work with the financial elements of something like this, you would have to have, you know, a Goldman Sachs or some sort of investment banking firm come in and do analysis, review. And it's been widely reported in the press that that happened in the last few months, six months or whatever.
Mr. Auchincloss: So you didn't consider the fact that -- or you didn't factor in, in your analysis, the fact that Sony had been depositing copyrights into this catalog over a period of years, Mr. Jackson had deposited no additional copyrights into this catalog, thereby decreasing Mr. Jackson's relative interest in the ATV catalog? You didn't factor that into your analysis, did you? “Yes” or “no”.
David LeGrand: I'm not sure that's a correct statement.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, didn't you factor in that Mr. Jackson just had a half interest in whatever the catalog was worth? Isn't that what your simple dynamic was?
David LeGrand: My dynamic view rested on that. I did not take into account whether or not there was a right on Sony's part to get paid back for invested dollars first. I did not consider that possibility at that time.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you didn't consider it to be a possibility that Sony was going to gift Mr. Jackson interest in those copyrights that they were depositing over those years, did you?
David LeGrand: I don't expect Sony to gift much of anything to anybody. But it wasn't about gifting the copyrights. Mr. Jackson owned half of the entity that owned the copyrights.
Mr. Auchincloss: Right. But owning half of the entity doesn't mean his financial interest is 50/50, does it?
David LeGrand: No. From a legal perspective, those two are readily separable.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And I want to talk about his financial interest in that catalog, so I want to focus on your knowledge about those facts. Were you aware that Mr. Jackson had been receiving guaranteed payments on the royalties from that catalog that in effect reduced his financial interest in the ATV catalog substantially over a number of years? Were you aware of that?
David LeGrand: At the time I wrote that letter, no. I actually became aware of that later in a conversation with Mr. Malnik.
Mr. Auchincloss: So you know now that his interest in that catalog is not worth half of whatever its market value is?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: And if a financial expert who had considered all these dynamics came into court and testified that Mr. Jackson's interest in that catalog is, at most, $200 million total, you would have no reason to quibble with that, would you?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; improper question.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, let me just summarize that you really didn't consider all the factors to ascertain exactly what Mr. Jackson's financial interest is in the ATV catalog, correct?
David LeGrand: I did not consider all of the possible factors, correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: So you cannot tell us -- you really don't have an idea of how much Mr. Jackson's financial interest is worth in the ATV catalog, true?
David LeGrand: I never pretended to really know, as a qualified business appraiser, what the value of Mr. Jackson's interest in that catalog was.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
David LeGrand: I was merely trying to suggest a course of action that could determine that value and hopefully produce a positive economic outcome for Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who is Fire Mountain?
David LeGrand: Fire Mountain is a limited liability company that was formed in Nevada, and it is a hundred-percent-owned subsidiary, I believe, of MJJ Productions.
Mr. Auchincloss: Are you aware of covenants and conditions in the Bank of America loans that prevent Mr. Jackson from encumbering the ATV catalog or the MIJAC catalog in any way additionally, additionally encumbering those assets?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And are you aware that the covenants and conditions of the Bank of America loan have some very rigorous guidelines about income for Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: I eventually obtained those loan documents and became better acquainted with the provisions in those documents.
Mr. Auchincloss: And one of the reasons for those covenants and conditions is because if Mr. Jackson was to come into any additional wealth, Bank of America was to be informed of it so that they could get in line to help pay for interest, pay for -- pay down those loans; isn't that true?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure I -- I'd like to defer to the language of the document. There is no question that Bank of America replenished the credit line note through, I believe it's the MIJAC catalog. Revenues would be deposited to replenish that credit line.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know if the formation -- let me back up a moment. What was the purpose of Fire Mountain LLC?
David LeGrand: It was to isolate liability, any liabilities associated with the production of the “Take 2” video.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was it also designed to be used to isolate liabilities in association with other FOX releases, like the home movies, anything of that nature?
David LeGrand: Not initially.
Mr. Auchincloss: But it developed into that?
David LeGrand: There was -- I believe that eventually did result. But that wasn't the initial -- that concept didn't exist at the time of the formation of Fire Mountain.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did Ann Gabriel express a concern about making the “Take 2” documentary a money-making enterprise?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: She perceived that to be negative in terms of public relations; that this should be done without any profit motive or any profit on behalf of Mr. Jackson, didn't she?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And that advice was not heeded, was it?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: And the reason for that is because Mr. Jackson was in severe financial distress, true?
David LeGrand: He had payables of about ten million, and cash in the tens of thousands.
Mr. Auchincloss: About 30,000 in cash?
David LeGrand: Whether it was 30 or 40 I don't recall, but it was not near enough to pay for his payables.
Mr. Auchincloss: In addition, it was not nearly enough to pay for Mr. Jackson's current lifestyle. I mean, he didn't have the funds to pay for his current lifestyle, assuming a spending rate that he had exhibited in the past?
David LeGrand: Clearly the payables accumulated to the ten-million-dollar level because the bills had not been paid previously.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. When you say that the LLC, limited liability corporation, Fire Mountain, was designed to limit or isolate liability, what do you mean by that?
David LeGrand: Generally, it's my understanding that the members of a limited liability company are not directly liable for the obligations of the company. So it has the kind of limited liability that a corporation would have.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you set that up?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who was authorized to sign on behalf of Fire Mountain LLC?
David LeGrand: For a while I was.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was Mr. Jackson also -- is he also somebody who could sign on behalf of Fire Mountain?
David LeGrand: We ultimately delivered documents that MJJ Productions was the member and had the authorization to sign. And I believe Mr. Jackson was the principal officer of MJJ Productions.
Mr. Auchincloss: And the proceeds from the “Take 2” production, or the rebuttal film, all of the proceeds for that video or film went into Fire Mountain; is that correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And there was a trust account established for Fire Mountain; isn't that true?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And didn't you set up that trust account?
David LeGrand: I set up a trust account for a while. And ultimately that trust account was transferred to another attorney.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. But during the month of February 2003, you were in control of that trust account, weren't you?
David LeGrand: My firm had that trust account, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And $3 million came in from FOX for the “Take 2” production, correct?
David LeGrand: I think that's right, in the aggregate. It didn't all come in at one time.
Mr. Auchincloss: But it came in in installments during the month of February 2003?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure of the timing. But certainly some of it was in February. It might have been all in February. I'm really not sure.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. If I could just have a moment. Come on. I'm about to give up on this backing.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to show you a document which I intend to mark as People's Exhibit 898, and I'm doing so at this time. It appears to be a five-page document with a Hale Lane fax as the first page. Would you identify that for me, sir?
David LeGrand: This looks like the trust listings from Hale Lane.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did you send that document to Michael Jackson at Neverland Ranch?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: On what date?
David LeGrand: April 1st, 2003.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did you do that as part of your duties as his attorney to keep him aware of financial matters regarding Fire Mountain LLC?
David LeGrand: I did this as part of the wrapping-up process of my responsibility for matters for Mr. Jackson other than the Granada litigation.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes. But my question is, was that communication made to inform Mr. Jackson of financial matters regarding the Fire Mountain LLC?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. It's an accounting, isn't it?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'd ask to move People's Exhibit 898 into evidence at this time.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Auchincloss: And if we could have the Elmo.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. LeGrand, in terms of the proceeds from the FOX production -- sorry -- the “Take 2” production, you were essentially -- let me just -- sorry about that. You were in charge of disbursement of funds, correct?
David LeGrand: Well, in my view, the funds belonged to Mr. Jackson, and Mr. Konitzer and Mr. Weizner had authority --
Bailiff Cortez: I'm sorry, sir. You need to talk into the --
David LeGrand: Oh, I'm sorry. The funds belonged to -- ultimately to Mr. Jackson through his company. And Mr. Konitzer and Mr. Weizner had the power to direct expenditures. So I didn't.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Weizner had the power to direct expenditures?
David LeGrand: Mr. Konitzer and Mr. Weizner had authority from Mr. Jackson, pursuant to the power of attorney, to direct expenditures.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did Mr. Weizner and Mr. Konitzer have powers of attorney?
David LeGrand: There was one power that was joint.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And Mr. Jackson signs many powers of attorneys, doesn't he?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: You have prepared more than one power of attorney for Mr. Jackson, have you not?
David LeGrand: I don't recall more than the one power getting executed. There may have been more than one draft of a power, but I don't remember more than one power actually getting executed.
Mr. Auchincloss: You have seen a number of powers of attorneys that have been executed by Michael Jackson, have you not?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. I'll come back to that. Let's go down this list. The very first entry that we have here shows an incoming wire from FOX Broadcasting Company of $750,000. Was that part payment for the “Take 2” production?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. There is a disbursement to Stuart Backerman, right here on the second line, 2-13-2003, $6,000. Who's Stuart Backerman?
David LeGrand: Mr. Backerman was a PR person.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And he was part of this -- maybe on the outer fringes of this team --
David LeGrand: Um --
Mr. Auchincloss: -- addressing the media crisis?
David LeGrand: He was engaged in providing media services for Mr. Jackson, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: So there's -- on 2-13, there's a disbursement of, I believe that's $50,000 -- I'm sorry, so you can see that, I believe that's $80,000 to Hale Lane. Is that $80,000 to pay for your legal fees?
David LeGrand: That was to the firm to pay for legal services, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: So that paid for your services. And then there's an $11,000 cash disbursement. Do you know where that went, on 2-13?
David LeGrand: It went in a wire, that's reflective of the wire to Katrin Konitzer, I believe.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, there's funds sent Western Union, $2,000 to Katrin Konitzer. Are you saying this $11,000 figure is related to Katrin Konitzer?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure. The 11,000 -- there's the next entry of distribution of 11,000 cash to purchase.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
David LeGrand: And I think that the 11,000 is composed of the 2,000 to Kathryn, the 4500 to Sandra, and the 4500 -- anyway, the 4500, 4500 and 2,000 equal the 11.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know who Sandra Hawk is?
David LeGrand: I believe she's an assistant to Mr. Konitzer. That's what I was told.
Mr. Auchincloss: Somebody who worked for Mr. Konitzer?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what about Canon Kasikci?
David LeGrand: I believe that -- I was told that was a consultant working with Mr. Konitzer.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. On Mr. Jackson's behalf?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know what type of consultant?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Next we have, on the same date, $150,000 going out to Neverland Valley Entertainment.
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: You sent that?
David LeGrand: My firm wired that money, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you have anything to do with it?
David LeGrand: I'm sure I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. That's my question. So you were involved in sending out $150,000 to Neverland Valley Entertainment; is that fair to say?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: I take it that went to your client, Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: It went to Neverland Valley Entertainment.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm sorry, I'm misspeaking. Neverland Valley Entertainment is not Mr. Jackson, is it?
David LeGrand: I believe that's a corporation that is -- I believe that's not owned by Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. It's not owned by Mr. Jackson? Only tell me if you know.
David LeGrand: There were some confusing names. I'm not sure -- I'm really not sure today. I'm sorry.
Mr. Auchincloss: Under whose direction did you send that $150,000 out to Neverland Valley Entertainment?
David LeGrand: Mr. Konitzer and Mr. Weizner.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Next you sent out a wire for Mr. Konitzer, $90,000, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Konitzer's direction. $10,000 for Gabriel Media. That would be Ann Gabriel?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Whose direction was that?
David LeGrand: Ronald Konitzer's.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Dieter Weizner got 110,000. I'm assuming that was Mr. Konitzer and Mr. Weizner's directive?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Joseph Marcus, $35,000. Who told you to send Joseph Marcus $35,000?
David LeGrand: Mr. Konitzer and Mr. Weizner.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Do you know who Joseph Marcus is?
David LeGrand: I believe he's the -- I'm not sure what his title is. He helps run Neverland for Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
The Court: Let's take our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you, Your Honor. Could we have the -- yeah, thank you.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Mr. LeGrand, where we left off, we were talking about Joe Marcus. Now, I'm not going to go through all of these, but did you ever talk to Mr. Jackson about this trust account?
David LeGrand: I don't recall a specific conversation with Mr. Jackson about this trust account. I do recall telling Mr. Jackson about what we were doing; that is, what I and the other lawyers were doing, and how we were using proceeds from the FOX video to help pay for the various legal and other services.
Mr. Auchincloss: So Mr. Jackson was being kept apprised about these expenditures?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: Not in detail, line by line. This was a conversation that, “We are utilizing these proceeds in this fashion”.
Mr. Auchincloss: So certainly, when you made a major expenditure, you got some clearance from Mr. Jackson; is that fair to say?
David LeGrand: I don't recall getting a specific authority from Mr. Jackson for any particular expenditure.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
David LeGrand: He indicated to me he was satisfied with the way things were being handled, that he had confidence in Mr. Konitzer, Mr. Weizner, and the lawyers, and the people that were working at this time, and he wanted us to continue working.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Moving down the list just a little bit, I'll point out the -- let's see. There appears to be another $750,000. Maybe that's the first -- let me pull this down a little bit. Okay. So we've got an incoming wire from FOX for 750,000. We had another incoming wire from FOX for $750,000. Was that also on the “Michael Jackson “Take 2”” video?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And then, finally, we had another incoming wire for one-million-five on 2-22-03. Was that also from the “Take 2” video?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: So this trust account essentially controlled the income and cash outflows for the FOX video, the “Michael Jackson 2”; is that fair to say? I mean, this trust account reflects income and expenses for the FOX video that's known as “Michael Jackson “Take 2””?
David LeGrand: It reflects the money coming in from FOX. It reflects expenditures going out, some of which were expenses relating to “Take 2”, some of which were expenses relating to, you know, the Granada litigation, the engagement of Mr. Geragos, et cetera. So it's not all expenses relating to “Take 2”.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Moving down a little bit, we see, let's see here, an outgoing wire to Ken H. Finkelstein, $560,000. What was that for?
David LeGrand: That was at the instruction of Mr. Konitzer and Mr. Weizner.
Mr. Auchincloss: What was it for?
David LeGrand: Mr. Finkelstein, as an attorney, was going to assume the primary responsibility for the rest of these proceeds.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And did you talk to Mr. Finkelstein?
David LeGrand: I believe the answer is yes. I don't remember the specific conversation, but I know I did have a conversation or two with Mr. Finkelstein.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Did you ever meet Mr. Finkelstein?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: There's another outgoing wire here, 3-25, 1,400,000 for Mr. Finkelstein. Do you know what that was for?
David LeGrand: Same as the 560.
Mr. Auchincloss: So it was the understanding that Mr. Finkelstein was going to undertake the management of this $560,000 disbursement and $1,400,000 disbursement on behalf of your client, correct?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Misstates the evidence; foundation.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm asking if that's the case.
David LeGrand: That's the way I understood it from Mr. Konitzer.
The Court: The objection's overruled.
David LeGrand: Sorry.
Mr. Auchincloss: And we have -- moving down, we also have, just as an example, another sizeable incoming wire, 566,000, from Alfred Haber. Mr. Haber is the foreign rights distributor for the “Take 2” video; isn't that true?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: So there was $3 million from FOX, plus additional hundreds of thousands of dollars that came in from foreign sources, correct?
David LeGrand: Ultimately, yes. It came from Haber.
Mr. Auchincloss: Marketing the video overseas?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And everything's accountable. In other words, I should say everything is accounted for - is that fair to say - in your basic accounting here, in terms of dollars and cents.
David LeGrand: I think the numbers add up, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you sent this to Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: We no longer need the Elmo, Your Honor. Thank you.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. LeGrand, are you aware of whether or not the covenants and conditions of the Bank of America loan allow Mr. Jackson to funnel moneys such as these that were held in the Fire Mountain account in the manner in which they were disbursed?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; relevance.
Mr. Auchincloss: He said he reviewed these documents.
The Court: Foundation; sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you review the covenants and conditions of the Bank of America loans?
David LeGrand: Eventually, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And those loans prevent Mr. Jackson from having a company like Fire Mountain, LLC, which would effectively conceal funds coming into his possession, profits. Those covenants and conditions are in violation of that loan, aren't they?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; relevance; Court order.
The Court: Foundation; sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know if the covenants and conditions of the Bank of America loan has a proscription, a rule against Mr. Jackson engaging in a company, starting an LCC like Fire Mountain as a profit enterprise? Do you know of that?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; relevance.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: I don't know today. I would have to look at the loan covenants. They were pretty detailed.
Mr. Auchincloss: You have no recollection of whether there's a loan covenant that prevents that?
David LeGrand: The company in question was a subsidiary of MJJ Productions. It was not a new company started by Michael Jackson. It's really a complex question, sir, and I would need -- to give you a proper answer, I would need to review the document.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you form Fire Mountain, LLC, to hide funds from the Bank of America?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; relevance.
The Court: Foundation; sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Tell me, who is Royalty Advance Funding?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure who Royalty Advance Funding is. But I met a person who I believe was associated with Royalty Advance Funding and discussed a proposal for a pledge of royalties, just as the name suggests, a pledge of royalties in exchange for a loan.
Mr. Auchincloss: And that individual's name was Parviz?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
David LeGrand: That's right.
Mr. Auchincloss: If I may approach, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. LeGrand, I show you People's Exhibit No. 422 in a notebook. It appears to have multiple pages. Have you ever seen the letterhead that is depicted on the first page of that group of documents?
David LeGrand: I have no specific recollection of this letterhead. It's possible I've seen it, but I don't --
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. I'm showing you page two of that document. There appears to be a signature in the lower right-hand corner. Do you recognize that signature?
David LeGrand: Looks like Michael Jackson's signature.
Mr. Auchincloss: Are you familiar with Michael Jackson's signature?
David LeGrand: Not extensively. But I've seen him sign documents, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: On numerous occasions?
David LeGrand: Reasonably often.
Mr. Auchincloss: Looking at the third page, there appears to be a signature at the bottom of the page. Does that appear to be Michael Jackson's signature?
Mr. Mesereau: No foundation, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you feel that you can recognize Michael Jackson's signature when you see it? I'm not asking you as an expert. I'm just asking you for a personal opinion.
David LeGrand: I think so.
Mr. Auchincloss: How many times have you seen Mr. Jackson sign documents?
David LeGrand: Half dozen to a dozen maybe.
Mr. Auchincloss: How many documents have you seen with Michael Jackson's signature on them?
David LeGrand: More than a dozen.
Mr. Auchincloss: A hundred?
David LeGrand: I would say shy of 100, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Something close to 100; would that be fair?
David LeGrand: It could be. We had many, many documents that I looked at over a period of time.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. I'll resubmit the same question to you. On page three, the lower right-hand corner, does that appear to be Michael Joe Jackson's signature?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: It appears to be his signature.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. The next page, also Mr. Jackson's signature?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: There are initials on the following page. Have you ever seen Mr. Jackson's initials?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do those appear to be his initials?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection. Foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Auchincloss: The following page, another signature. Does that appear to be Michael Jackson's signature?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm skipping ahead one page. Does that appear to be Michael Jackson's signature on that page?
David LeGrand: It certainly could be. It's somewhat different than the others, though.
Mr. Auchincloss: Does he often sign his name a little differently?
David LeGrand: I've seen documents that vary somewhat in the size of the signature. I've seen it, you know, take up a third of a page, and the loops are sometimes a little different. I'm not an expert in handwriting, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: In reviewing Mr. Jackson's financial condition, did it come to your attention that he ever possessed or loaned -- was loaned money by Royalty Advance Funding?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Beyond the scope; relevance; Court order.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: You said that you were thinking about obtaining a loan or there was some discussion with Mr. Parviz about obtaining a loan on Mr. Jackson's behalf from Royalty Advance Funding?
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection. Relevance; Court order.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: If Mr. Jackson had obtained a loan -- I'll move on. I'll move on. All right. Let's talk about some of the parties. Did you meet -- I'm sorry, I believe you mentioned that you met Marc Schaffel?
David LeGrand: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: And where was -- where did you first meet Marc Schaffel?
David LeGrand: At his residence in Calabasas.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Did you ever have a discussion with Marc Schaffel about releases?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever have a discussion with Marc Schaffel about a script of questions that was to be asked the Arvizo family, or the Arvizos?
David LeGrand: I don't remember a script discussion.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever discuss with Mr. Schaffel matters over the phone?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever have a phone conversation with Mr. Schaffel where you discussed questions which might be propounded to the Arvizo family during their filming for the “Take 2” video?
David LeGrand: I don't remember a conversation with Marc Schaffel where I enumerated a list of questions or we discussed specific questions that should or shouldn't be asked of the Arvizos. I -- we had -- Mr. Jackson -- we had engaged Mark Geragos to deal with anything that had relevance to potential criminal inquiries or inquiries with regards to, you know, custody of children, because in that original spout of publicity there were people saying, you know, his children should be removed from his custody, et cetera. And, you know, I'm a corporate lawyer. So my primary mission was to engage Mr. Geragos -- or a part of the mission was to engage someone like Mr. Geragos to provide advice and assistance with respect to those types of matters. And to me, largely, the matters relating to what the -- whether the Arvizos should be in a video or anything of that sort was more Mr. Geragos's venue than mine.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. My question is, did you ever -- well, maybe we should start it this way: Did you ever have a discussion with Marc Schaffel about the Arvizos?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: How many times did you discuss the Arvizos with Marc Schaffel?
David LeGrand: I don't know. I mean, several.
Mr. Auchincloss: More than five?
David LeGrand: Hmm. I'm not sure.
Mr. Auchincloss: You previously testified that the concern from the media about Michael Jackson sleeping with young boys was one of the major concerns; is that a fair paraphrasing of your testimony?
David LeGrand: I don't know. It was certainly significant.
Mr. Auchincloss: And was it also a subject of great interest with the media, the subject of Gavin Arvizo in particular?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure that I can summarize what the media's -- you know, where their attention was or wasn't focused at that time.
Mr. Auchincloss: You never had a discussion with any member of the PR team that said, “Gavin Arvizo is somebody everybody wants to know about”, something along those lines?
David LeGrand: It's possible, but I don't recall that specific conversation.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, you saw the “Take 2” video, right?
David LeGrand: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was it obvious to you that the world would want to know who this young boy is?
David LeGrand: In the “Take 2” video?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm sorry. I'm misspeaking. In the Martin Bashir video. Was it obvious to you that the young boy in that video, Gavin Arvizo, was going to be the subject of inquiry by the media? Was that obvious to you?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you said you had these discussions with Mr. Schaffel, several, regarding the Arvizos. What did you talk to Mr. Schaffel about the Arvizos?
David LeGrand: I expressed to Mr. Schaffel my concern that we needed, on Mr. Jackson's behalf, to find a way to wean the Arvizos away from Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever have any discussion with Mr. Schaffel about the Arvizos appearing in the “Take 2” video?
David LeGrand: I know I spoke to Mr. Schaffel about doing some videotaping, but as to whether or not that would ultimately be included in the “Take 2”, no, I was not part of the editing. I played no role in the editing of the film for the “Take 2” video.
Mr. Auchincloss: But you did talk to Mr. Schaffel about it, correct?
David LeGrand: In general terms, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever talk to Mark Geragos about it?
David LeGrand: I know I had conversations with Mark Geragos about the “Take 2” video, the rebuttal footage that was being included. I don't know that I specifically had a conversation with Marc about the Arvizos being included or not in that video.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever talk to Mr. Jackson about the “Take 2” video?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever talk to him about the Arvizos being included in it?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: You were aware that the Arvizos were perceived as key players in the rehabilitation of Michael Jackson in the “Take 2” video, weren't you?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Misstates the evidence; no foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Weren't you aware that the Arvizos could play a critical role in the “Take 2”? video?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; misstates the evidence.
Mr. Auchincloss: It's a question. I'm not --
Mr. Mesereau: They weren't in it, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled. Do you understand the question? Do you want it read back?
David LeGrand: Please.
The Court Reporter: Weren't you aware that the Arvizos could play a critical role in the “Take 2”? video?
David LeGrand: I don't remember that we -- that I or other members of the legal team and the PR team -- I don't remember a discussion where it was said, “These are critical people and we have to have them included in the video”. Our focus -- my focus in terms of the “Take 2” was the Bashir outtakes that Hamid had, because I believe, as presented in “Take 2”, that those revealed Martin Bashir to have been deceptive and perhaps at least less than forthcoming in his characterization in the Granada piece. That, to me, was really the critical element of “Take 2”.
Mr. Auchincloss: But that isn't what the media was upset about, was it? They were upset about Gavin Arvizo and sleeping with children, true?
David LeGrand: It's hard for me to answer questions about what the media was upset about, I'm sorry.
Mr. Auchincloss: Didn't you read the newspapers at that time?
David LeGrand: Sure, I read some newspapers at that time.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you follow the Internet at that time?
David LeGrand: When I had time, I tried to follow what was being put out by the media.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And one of the things that the media was clamoring about is Gavin Arvizo, and Michael Jackson sleeping with boys, true?
David LeGrand: I don't -- I don't remember how much of it was about Gavin Arvizo. There was certainly a lot of fuss about the sleeping with boys.
Mr. Auchincloss: You're aware that there was a press release which indicated Janet Arvizo was going to be in the “Take 2” video, weren't you?
David LeGrand: I might have been. I don't recall that press release today.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, you're aware that Brad Lachman Productions expected Janet Arvizo to be in that video, aren't you?
David LeGrand: I don't know what Brad Lachman Productions expected or did not expect.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you provide your file on Michael Jackson to anybody involved in this case?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who?
David LeGrand: I delivered my files to the then defense attorneys back in -- last year, to the Katten Muchin law firm in particular.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Did you meet with Steve Cochran?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you have a conversation with him?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you converse about the facts as far as your involvement in this part of Michael Jackson's life, your capacity as an attorney?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, there was a period of privilege and then it was waived.
The Court: I'm sorry, I don't understand what you're saying.
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah, okay. There was a period where his communications were privileged and then we waived it.
The Court: I understand.
Mr. Mesereau: So I can't speak for Mr. Cochran, but I can speak for myself.
The Court: Maybe I'm not getting the significance. Do you want to approach and --
Mr. Mesereau: Sure.
The Court: I hear what you're saying, but I'm not understanding it. (Discussion held off the record at sidebar.)
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you.
Mr. Auchincloss: How many meetings did you have with Mr. Cochran?
David LeGrand: I think it was two. It might have been three. But I think it was two.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did you turn over your complete files?
David LeGrand: Best of my knowledge, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you remove any documents from those files?
David LeGrand: I don't recall removing any documents, no, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is it possible you removed some files, some of those documents?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; calls for speculation.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll strike that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did the documents that you turned over to Mr. Cochran include billing statements?
David LeGrand: I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did it include your personal notes?
David LeGrand: I don't know. I mean, I turned over, I think it was, five boxes. It was multiple boxes of documents.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, is it fair -- go ahead and finish.
David LeGrand: Yeah, I'm not sure what all was in there.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is it fair to say those documents in their complete form would contain a number of pages of personal notes that you took during your representation of Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: I don't know. I'd have to look through the boxes and see what's in there. We had files in numerous places. I had lawyers -- sometimes we had six different lawyers in my firm working on Michael-Jackson-related matters.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm asking about your personal notes. You do write personal notes when you're representing a client, correct?
David LeGrand: Often.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you also have phone logs, true?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure what you mean by a phone log, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, don't you charge by the hour?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: So you have billable hours, right?
David LeGrand: Yeah. I keep time sheets, yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: When you're on the phone dealing with the client's matters you're billing for it, correct?
David LeGrand: Generally, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: So you keep notes of that?
David LeGrand: Yeah. I keep time sheets, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: So otherwise, you can't bill for it?
David LeGrand: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: And your complete files should include all those time sheets, correct?
David LeGrand: I don't remember whether the time sheets were included or not. My time sheets generally are converted into an electronic billing statement. And so I don't generally keep the -- my handwritten -- I don't even know where they go sometimes. I give them to a secretary.
Mr. Auchincloss: When you talk to your client over the phone, isn't it part of an attorney's duties to keep detailed notes of what his client is informing him to do so he can go back and refer to those notes in case there is some kind of conflict?
David LeGrand: Yeah. No, it's prudent practice to keep notes, and I do keep notes. I just don't know whether the notes were -- ended up in what was delivered to Mr. Cochran's law firm or not.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. I guess my next question is, where are your notes?
David LeGrand: I don't know. I moved from Hale Lane, and I -- I -- I honestly don't know where those notes are. I'd have to go to Las Vegas and look.
Mr. Auchincloss: You have no idea where your notes are concerning personal conversations that you had with Michael Jackson when you represented him?
David LeGrand: No, I'm really not. I think -- I know I have -- some of my notes are in a couple of boxes that I have because files moved with me to my new law firm.
Mr. Auchincloss: So are you saying that the files that you provided to Steve Cochran are incomplete and that you withheld some of the documents, including personal notes?
David LeGrand: They -- I don't know whether they include my personal notes or not. I would be pleased to look through what Mr. Cochran has and make that assessment. I don't know today. That was close to, you know, nine months ago.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you just testify that you have in your possession some personal notes in your new office?
David LeGrand: Yes, I have some of my notes.
Mr. Auchincloss: From the Michael Jackson case?
David LeGrand: Oh, I don't know whether they're from the Michael Jackson case or not.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever perceive the Arvizo family as a liability to Michael Jackson?
David LeGrand: I perceived the Arvizo family as a potential liability to Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Mr. Jackson engaged in a lawsuit against Granada, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you desired to have the Arvizos join in that matter; isn't that true?
David LeGrand: It was not my personal decision and desire that they be included. I had, you know, engaged some very prominent, reputable barristers, solicitors, lawyers, to evaluate the best approach to suing Granada, and there was certainly consideration that the claims against Granada could be enhanced if the Arvizos were included as complainants.
Mr. Auchincloss: No release was ever obtained for Gavin Arvizo in the Martin Bashir film, was there?
David LeGrand: I don't believe so. I agree with you, and that's my belief. There was never a release to Granada.
Mr. Auchincloss: And are you aware that Michael Jackson arranged to have Gavin, Star, and his sister come to Neverland Ranch without their mother to film that segment of the Martin Bashir video?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Are you aware that Gavin was filmed as part of the Martin Bashir video?
David LeGrand: Yes. I've seen the Martin Bashir video and Gavin was in it.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Martin Bashir filmed Gavin talking about his cancer, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And as far as you know, his mother never authorized Mr. -- or Gavin Arvizo to appear in that video?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Isn't that what you litigated with Granada, the fact that -- one of the facts that you were litigating involved Gavin's -- or the failure to obtain a release from Gavin or his mother? Isn't that one of the issues that you sought to bring to bear on Granada concerning this lawsuit?
David LeGrand: Again, I have trouble with the lawsuit and the complaints before the Standards Board, the Broadcasting Board. I know for certain that was a concern and a claim made in the complaint to the Broadcasting Standards Board. I just don't remember whether that was also in the litigation. It's --
Mr. Auchincloss: Did Michael Jackson express any concern about having Gavin's face blanked out before the airing of the Martin Bashir video?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Beyond the scope; relevance.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: Michael generally was concerned about the images of the children, not just his children, but the children.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm asking you if he ever expressed specifically a concern about having Michael -- about having Gavin Arvizo's face blanked out in that film.
David LeGrand: I don't recall that -- Mr. Jackson making such a specific statement to me.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was it something you attempted to negotiate with Granada?
David LeGrand: I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did it occur to you when you saw that video that Gavin's appearance in that video could be quite traumatic to a 13-year-old boy?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you have any concern about Gavin Arvizo in terms of having his face blotted out on the Martin Bashir video?
David LeGrand: I think the subject -- and I'm not certain. I think the subject came up in one of the teleconferences with the UK team. We were on a very short timeline to present a demand to Granada. The film was supposed to air on Monday, and we were trying to organize ourselves as the legal representatives over that weekend --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object to the narrative.
David LeGrand: Sorry
The Court: All right. Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: At some time in your attempts to keep the Arvizo family on board with this lawsuit, did you offer Janet Arvizo money?
David LeGrand: I don't know. I don't -- I don't -- I don't remember offering her money. I only spoke with her once or twice. But I remember there were discussions about providing money for the Arvizos. And it wasn't just, you know, for the video. It was goodwill and --
Mr. Auchincloss: Janet Arvizo was never paid a dime for the video; isn't that true?
David LeGrand: What video?
Mr. Auchincloss: The video that she made, that was taken of her by Hamid and Schaffel.
David LeGrand: I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. You know --
David LeGrand: I'm not aware of anything.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. There was never any intention to give her money, as far as you know, for her appearance in that video; is that fair to say?
David LeGrand: There was -- I had a conversation with Mark Geragos at one point about doing something economically to help the Arvizos. Whether it was getting them an apartment with, you know, prepaid rent, some sort of economic accommodation to them.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm talking about the video.
David LeGrand: I do not recall any specific conversation of a payment for the appearance in the video.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did you not offer Janet Arvizo, through her attorney, Mr. Dickerman, $25,000 to stay on as plaintiffs in the Granada lawsuit?
David LeGrand: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: You do recall that now?
David LeGrand: I do recall that, yeah.
Mr. Auchincloss: You also offered to take care of all the attorney's fees in terms of litigating that lawsuit, in addition to giving her $25,000; isn't that true?
David LeGrand: Yeah. I'm not sure it was the lawsuit. I think that was the Broadcasting Standards Board complaint.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
David LeGrand: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: These were both litigations over some kind of money damages; is that fair to say?
David LeGrand: No, it's not fair to say. The Broadcasting Standards Board complaint process is not an economic reward process. That is, if you are successful in the complaint, there is no damage award.
Mr. Auchincloss: What's the outcome?
David LeGrand: Granada gets a -- if a complaint is upheld, the broadcaster is censured, or I believe there's a potential for fines, but it's very rare.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So you offered Janet Arvizo money because you wanted Granada censured; is that true?
David LeGrand: We wanted to -- as a strategic matter, we wanted to maintain both complaints before the Broadcasting Standards Board, because we viewed that as positive leverage in the lawsuit.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And all positive leverage aside, Janet Arvizo did not want Michael Jackson's money, did she?
David LeGrand: I don't know what Janet Arvizo did or didn't want.
Mr. Auchincloss: It was turned down. Your offer was turned down; isn't that true?
David LeGrand: Well, that's true.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Would it be positive leverage to keep Gavin, I guess, and Janet, the Arvizo family, in that lawsuit because they were perceived as people who were wronged in the filming of that video? Isn't that fair to say?
David LeGrand: It was leverage because it was a good, strong, colorable claim in front of the Broadcasting Standards Board.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you disagree with what I said, that they were perceived to be people who were wronged by that action?
David LeGrand: I don't know how they were perceived. I know we crafted a complaint and filed a complaint that made allegations to that effect. I just -- I can't answer about perceptions. I'm sorry.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, you perceived it to be a situation where the Arvizos had leverage, additional leverage in this lawsuit because they suffered from it; isn't that true? Or do you disagree with that?
David LeGrand: It was -- again, I don't -- I don't recall their participation in the lawsuit. This was a complaint before the Broadcasting Standards Board. And there were two complaints filed. Originally there was one complaint filed, and the Broadcasting Standards Board said, “No, this is wrongly pled, and the Arvizos' complaint has to be a separate and distinct complaint from Mr. Jackson's complaint”. So we filed a complaint -- the UK lawyers filed a complaint on behalf of the Arvizos before the Broadcasting Standards Board. Parallel, there is a lawsuit going on in a court in England.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object to the narrative. I would just ask you -- I don't want to quibble about lawsuits versus complaints, okay? It's the semantics. I want to know --
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike counsel's comments.
Mr. Auchincloss: Just trying to express my question.
The Court: It's stricken.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. I just want to know that when an individual files a complaint with the Broadcasting Standards Commission -- is that the name?
David LeGrand: I think it's a board.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. They don't have a complaint unless they've been wronged in some fashion; am I right in that or am I wrong?
David LeGrand: The complaint alleged that Granada acted wrongly towards the Arvizos.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you.
David LeGrand: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Now, as far as Mr. Konitzer and Mr. Weizner's involvement with Mr. Jackson, you were concerned about 960,000, you said, that was --
David LeGrand: I think it's --
Mr. Auchincloss: -- that was disbursed to these two gentlemen, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes. I think it was 965, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. 965. And you informed Mr. Jackson of that, true?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And after you informed him of that, Mr. Jackson fired you; is that true?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And one of the things that you did on your own was to get -- was to investigate all of the people in Mr. Jackson's inner circle?
David LeGrand: Yeah, I don't know about “all”, but --
Mr. Auchincloss: Some of the people?
David LeGrand: Quite a few people, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And you informed Mr. Jackson of that conduct, that you did that on your own, didn't you?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes.
David LeGrand: Well, actually, I think we -- my partner, Mr. Gibson and I, I think we informed Mr. Jackson that we wanted to conduct background investigations on various people. I'm not sure we gave him an entire list, but we got general approval to engage an investigative team and conduct some background investigations.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And he didn't fire any of the people that you did the background checks on, did he?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know if he fired any of the people that he did the background checks on? That you did the background checks on, excuse me.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague as to time.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know if he fired any of the people that you did the background checks on within, say, a couple of months after you did the background checks, or after you delivered that information to Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: I'm not aware that anyone was fired as a result of the investigative reports.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And --
The Court: Counsel, I'm -- we have an issue we have to take up. I'm just wondering how much longer you have with this witness.
Mr. Auchincloss: I don't think I'm going to finish this afternoon. I don't have a lot left, but it's -- it's more than eight minutes.
The Court: All right. Then we'll stop now. So we'll take up the other issue. You may step down. And the jury, I'll excuse you until tomorrow morning. I'll see you at 8:30. Remember the admonition.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: All right. Counsel, I've been told there's an issue you wish to take up.
Mr. Sanger: There is. Could we ask -- Mr. Kopp is a lawyer who's waiting outside. Could we ask that he be --
The Bailiff: What's his name?
Mr. Sanger: Kopp. Shep Kopp. With the Court's permission, I'll wait until he gets in here so he can hear everything. Your Honor, Mr. Kopp is with Mr. Geragos's law firm and he is here representing Mr. Geragos, my understanding. I have given to the bailiff an original subpoena and return thereon, showing that Mr. Geragos was subpoenaed to appear tomorrow. And I would point out to the Court that we had earlier subpoenaed him and had hoped to call him today. “Today” being Thursday. It turns out that he is in a jury trial. The jury trial goes Monday through Thursday. He indicated that the judge was not willing to let him off for the purpose of being here today, and so therefore we resubpoenaed him for tomorrow. That's the subpoena that the Court will have momentarily. I think your clerk or your secretary is being kind enough to make an extra copy for us. Mr. Geragos has been struggling with the duty to appear because, being in trial, he scheduled a number of things, including a preliminary hearing tomorrow in another court. I had asked him to please clear that and indicated that we would inform this Court of his need to be here in case the judges wanted to call Your Honor, or vice versa, in order to clear that. Thank you. And I'll just file the original, if we could, please, with the clerk. Thank you. And a copy to counsel. And another copy for Mr. Kopp. To cut through all the nonsense and get right down to the bottom line, we really need him tomorrow at 8:30 or we need him Monday at 8:30. We really cannot put it off any longer. Mr. Kopp has indicated that -- and, in fact, Mr. Geragos told me on the phone this morning that he would rather come on the 26th, or June something-or-other. It does not work. And we've tried to accommodate him, and I understand his situation, but we just need to do something. I believe that if this Court specifically orders him to be here absolutely on Monday, that that may help him clear his calendar. Or you could order him tomorrow. But we are asking to enforce the subpoena for either tomorrow or Monday. And I gather what Mr. Kopp will tell you is that probably Monday is better than tomorrow, but we're -- we'll live with that. But we do need to enforce it somehow or another. I thought we should bring it to your attention. We do not want to be here having to have a body attachment issued and go through all that unnecessarily. And if this Court's order are specific instructions to Mr. Kopp or a call to a judge or willingness to receive a call to clear this up, we would appreciate it. Thank you.
The Court: Do you want to say anything, Mr. Kopp?
Mr. Kopp: I suppose I should, Your Honor. I thought maybe we could resolve this maybe through a phone call from Your Honor to the trial court in Orange County.
The Court: They can't hear you. You have to speak into a microphone.
Mr. Kopp: I'm sorry. Good afternoon, Your Honor. I thought maybe this could be resolved by way of a phone call from Your Honor to the trial court in Orange County, and I have those phone numbers, and maybe this can all be worked out. We're doing our best to accommodate the Court. The subpoena was just served yesterday. Obviously there are many other matters scheduled, so we're trying to comply.
The Court: Let me see the subpoena.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, I'd point out this is our second subpoena.
The Court: As I understand, the subpoena is for tomorrow. So I'll order him to appear here at 8:30 a.m. tomorrow morning in accordance with the subpoena.
Mr. Kopp: Well, may I -- if that is what the Court is going to do, I mean, I guess I would like to be heard on that and just make it known that Mr. Geragos did have -- there was two matters scheduled in Van Nuys, one of which is a custody matter. Those matters have been put over numerous times. And there's a preliminary hearing scheduled --
The Court: Now you know how citizens feel in this community and every community in the state when they're called away from their employment by attorneys in courts.
Mr. Kopp: I --
The Court: Now we have a lawyer who wants special accommodation. The answer is no. He's been subpoenaed. There's no motion to quash. I expect him here at 8:30 tomorrow morning.
Mr. Kopp: Your Honor --
The Court: That will give me time to get the warrant out when he doesn't appear so he'll be here Monday for sure. Because I expect him to be here tomorrow morning.
Mr. Kopp: Well, I -- I don't mean to ask for special treatment, Your Honor, but what I do want to ask for is professional courtesy. And I think subpoenaing somebody two days before they're scheduled to appear is not sufficient notice, particularly given the fact that everyone in this courtroom, I believe, is aware of the fact that Mr. Geragos has been in this trial and has numerous matters scheduled. So I'm not -- I don't mean --
The Court: We're aware, you know, that he's a very busy attorney. It's the same with any citizen who's subpoenaed. It's the same with the jurors that are called to testify. Now, the question is, does the present employment of the person overcome the immediacy of the subpoena? And it's always the immediacy of the subpoena that overcomes. It doesn't -- it's no different than if we subpoenaed a deputy sheriff or a mechanic, or a child victim. You know, this is a subpoena he has to obey. And, you know, I'm sure you'd be delighted if you were the attorney asking your subpoena to be enforced. So....
Mr. Kopp: Well, if I was the attorney, I would have served it more than two days before the court date, but I'm not the attorney. But that being said, I will convey the Court's order to Mr. Geragos.
The Court: Thank you. All right. I do want to see two of the attorneys in chambers for a moment, that would be Mr. Mesereau and Mr. Sneddon, with the court reporter.
The Bailiff: Judge, do you plan to come back out?
The Court: No, I'm not going to come back out.
The Bailiff: Thank you.
The Court: This will just take a minute.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:30 p.m.
