Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Tuesday, May 17, 2005 8:30 a.m.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: Good morning.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor.
The Court: Yesterday I made a ruling on the impeachment testimony. I gave the opportunity to the defense to provide specific impeachment citations that they were interested in impeaching with this testimony, and I've reviewed that. I received it this morning. I'm not going to change my ruling. The impeachment that is requested is to collateral issues, and so the ruling will stand. Let's bring in the jury.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, before you do, we had asked to just address the Court on scheduling --
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: -- scheduling matters. Could we do that up at the bench? Could we do that up at the bench?
The Court: All right. Approach the bench, so the jury doesn't hear.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, may I join? I think it will help.
The Court: All right. (Discussion held off the record at sidebar.)
The Court: All right. I'm going to have the jury come in. I'm sorry for the conference there. But what we were able to achieve in that conference at bench here was the schedule for the Court for the next few days, so I appreciate the fact that you had to sit here and wait without hearing that, but it's going to help me in the long run. We'll bring in the jury.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: Good morning.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
The Court: Counsel? You may proceed.
Mr. Sanger: Yes. We had Mr. Vivanco on the stand.
The Court: Come forward, please. When you get to the witness stand, you may be seated. You're still under oath.
Message: ANGEL VIVANCO Having been previously sworn, resumed the stand and testified further as follows:
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION Continued BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Mr. Vivanco, how you doing?
Angel Vivanco: Good. How are you?
Mr. Sanger: Fine, thank you. All right. I just have a little bit more for you here. Yesterday, you told us that you had -- I believe you said you had started to talk with Davellin; is that right?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And how did -- how did this all start? Well, let me ask you this first. As an employee at Neverland, were you supposed to have personal conversations with the guests, or not?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. How did it happen that you started to have personal conversations with Davellin?
Angel Vivanco: She would ask me questions, and I would answer as -- as a worker there, I would answer her.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. You would answer her. Did you eventually develop a friendship?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And can you -- let me withdraw that. Other than during the work hours, did you have occasion to see her?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And where would you generally meet with her?
Angel Vivanco: After work at the parking area.
Mr. Sanger: And where is the parking area?
Angel Vivanco: On the -- where the fire department is at.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Do you mean the administration building?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Up on the hill, outside the manicured lawn area; is that right?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And about what time of night would you generally see her?
Angel Vivanco: After work at around maybe 10:00, 10:30.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And about how long would you spend together in the evening?
Angel Vivanco: Probably half an hour.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And during -- this -- at some point, Davellin and her family left Neverland for the last time. Do you remember that?
Angel Vivanco: No, I don't remember that day, but she told me about it.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So there's some point at the end where she's at Neverland and then she's not there anymore?
Angel Vivanco: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: And you weren't there that exact night when she left; is that right?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So about how many evenings did you spend on a personal basis with Davellin?
Angel Vivanco: Around five or six.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And was this closer to the beginning of her visits there or the end?
Angel Vivanco: Towards the end.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And then one day she just wasn't there anymore; is that it?
Angel Vivanco: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, during the course of your visiting with her, did you, in fact, have personal conversations with her?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Then after she left -- we saw that phone record yesterday, and I'm not going to put them up again, but you saw your telephone number up there. Do you recall if she telephoned you after she left?
Angel Vivanco: I think it was the day she left, like that night.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And did she keep calling you after that for a while?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then at some point, you stopped getting telephone calls from her; is that right?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Did you continue to have personal conversations during those phone calls over the next two weeks or whatever it was?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, during that entire time that you had personal conversations with Davellin, did she ever complain to you that Michael Jackson had treated her or her family in a bad way?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did she ever claim to you that she was being falsely imprisoned?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did she ever complain to you that any of her family members had been mistreated by anybody at Neverland?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I have no further questions.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Vivanco, good morning.
Angel Vivanco: Good morning.
Mr. Zonen: Did you say yesterday that you used to work there from seven o'clock in the morning until 10 p.m.?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Every day?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Monday through Friday?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And sometimes on Saturday, sometimes on Sunday?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Were you getting overtime during that time?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you see the documentary “Living with Michael Jackson”?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: When did you see it?
Angel Vivanco: Two nights after it aired.
Mr. Zonen: Two nights after it aired?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: How did you happen to see it two nights after it aired?
Angel Vivanco: On my day off. I think that was the same night maybe. I'm not sure, but I seen it all.
Mr. Zonen: You thought it was playing two nights later?
Angel Vivanco: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Did you recognize any of the people who were in that documentary?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Objection. That's beyond the scope, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you know who Martin Bashir was?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you see him when he was on the property at Neverland?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. When was it that the Arvizo family was there at Neverland? Before or after Martin Bashir was there?
Angel Vivanco: Before.
Mr. Zonen: So the Arvizos came after Martin Bashir was there?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Misstates the -- well, it's confusing. It's ambiguous, let's put it that way.
The Court: I'll allow the question. Do you understand the question?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Let me ask it again.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember seeing the Arvizo family present at Neverland while Martin Bashir was there?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Zonen: You saw -- you never saw the Arvizos at any time while Martin Bashir was there?
Angel Vivanco: Yes -- yes, I remember. Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: On how many occasions was Martin Bashir at Neverland?
Angel Vivanco: Maybe I've seen him five times.
Mr. Zonen: Five times. Over what period of time?
Angel Vivanco: Over the -- a month maybe.
Mr. Zonen: Over one month?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And during that time, on how many of those occasions that he was there was the Arvizo family there as well?
Angel Vivanco: I don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: Was it more than once?
Angel Vivanco: I think so.
Mr. Zonen: When Star was playing around with the knife in the kitchen, did you report that to anybody?
Angel Vivanco: No, I didn't.
Mr. Zonen: Did you call the police?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Zonen: You didn't call the police because you didn't think he was serious, right?
Angel Vivanco: I thought he was playing around.
Mr. Zonen: You thought he was joking?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell him that wasn't the right thing to do?
Angel Vivanco: Afterwards, yes.
Mr. Zonen: He was a 12-year-old kid at the time, right?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And afterwards, you said that wasn't the right thing to do?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: What do you mean “afterwards”? Right after it happened or a day later, two days later; what?
Angel Vivanco: Right after it happened.
Mr. Zonen: Right after it happened?
Angel Vivanco: Yeah, like two hours later, after I seen him again.
Mr. Zonen: All right. So you told him to put the knife down and he did?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: You never felt threatened by that?
Angel Vivanco: No, not really.
Mr. Zonen: And you never felt scared of him?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Zonen: He was a 12-year-old kid playing around, right?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you report that incident to Michael Jackson?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you report the incident to Michael Jackson of Gavin using an obscene word?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you report it to anybody?
Angel Vivanco: I told my co-workers about it.
Mr. Zonen: Did you report to Michael Jackson that the kids were drinking alcohol?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Zonen: When you were initially interviewed by the sheriff's office, you told them that you didn't know who the Arvizo family was, right?
Angel Vivanco: Yes, at that time I didn't recognize their last name. I didn't know them by the Arvizos.
Mr. Zonen: They gave you all the names, didn't they, Star, Davellin, Gavin?
Angel Vivanco: Just the first names, yes.
Mr. Zonen: And you told them you didn't recognize any of them, right?
Angel Vivanco: Just the last name, I didn't recognize the last names.
Mr. Zonen: And he had to show you photographs. And then after he showed you photographs you said, “Oh, yeah, I remember them”, right?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: You didn't tell them anything about a knife incident, did you?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Zonen: You didn't tell them anything about them drinking alcohol, did you?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Zonen: You didn't tell them anything about Gavin swearing at you, right?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Zonen: No further questions.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Mr. Vivanco, was it your job to report things directly to Michael Jackson?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: So if something went wrong with guests or with anything at the ranch, who would you ordinarily go to if it was serious enough?
Angel Vivanco: The supervisor of the ranch.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And if you felt that you could handle the situation, did you feel a need to report everything that happened?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, you said -- this knife incident. Mr. Zonen asked you if you were scared. Did you think it was funny?
Angel Vivanco: Not really.
Mr. Sanger: And was it a sharp knife or a dull knife?
Angel Vivanco: It was sharp.
Mr. Sanger: Had any other guests ever done anything like that to you in the time you worked there?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; irrelevant.
The Court: Overruled.
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: Now, Mr. Zonen asked you about talking to the police. Do you remember talking to the police?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you try to be cooperative?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Were you nervous?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, did they ever ask you anything about a knife?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did they ever ask you anything about Gavin or Star swearing?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did they ever ask you about Gavin or Star asking you for alcohol?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Okay. Thank you. No further questions.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Who is the supervisor you reported these incidents to?
Angel Vivanco: Jesus Salas.
Mr. Sanger: Objection, miss -- oh, I'm sorry. It's either beyond the scope of direct -- I mean of redirect, or misstates the evidence.
The Court: Well, the question was vague. We have an answer, but I'll strike the answer and let you reask the question.
Mr. Zonen: Did you report any of these events to any supervisor?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Who was the supervisor?
Angel Vivanco: First it was Rudy Lozano, my --
Mr. Zonen: Rudy who?
Angel Vivanco: Rudy Lozano.
Mr. Zonen: Say the last name again slowly.
Angel Vivanco: Lozano.
Mr. Zonen: Lozano? Okay. What did you tell Rudy?
Angel Vivanco: About what Star did.
Mr. Zonen: Which --
Angel Vivanco: Which is when he stuck the knife to my neck.
Mr. Zonen: What else? What else did you tell Rudy?
Angel Vivanco: About the alcohol incident.
Mr. Zonen: What else did you tell Rudy?
Angel Vivanco: And about the swearing.
Mr. Zonen: When was that?
Angel Vivanco: Right after it happened, I would tell him.
Mr. Zonen: What?
Angel Vivanco: Right after the incidents would happen I would tell him, right after.
Mr. Zonen: What month was that?
Angel Vivanco: I don't remember the month.
Mr. Zonen: What year was it?
Angel Vivanco: 2003.
Mr. Zonen: Sometime in 2003?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell somebody else about these events?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Zonen: Didn't you just say you told Jesus Salas?
Angel Vivanco: Oh, yes, Jesus Salas.
Mr. Zonen: What did you tell Jesus Salas?
Angel Vivanco: The same thing.
Mr. Zonen: Each of these?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: No further questions.
Mr. Sanger: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, the defense will call Ms. Irene -- excuse me, Ms. Irene Peters.
The Court: When you get to the witness stand, I'd like you to remain standing. Face the clerk here and raise your right hand.
Message: IRENE LAVERN PETERS Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Irene Peters: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Irene Peters: My name is Irene Lavern Peters. I-r-e-n-e; L-a-v-e-r-n; P-e-t-e-r-s.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning, Miss Peters.
Irene Peters: Good morning.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Peters, my name is Tom Mesereau and I speak for Mr. Jackson. Miss Peters, how are you employed?
Irene Peters: I'm employed as a social worker with the Department of Children & Family Services.
Mr. Mesereau: And is that in Los Angeles?
Irene Peters: Yes, it is.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long have you worked for the Department of Children & Family Services in Los Angeles?
Irene Peters: 30 years.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what do you do with the department?
Bailiff Cortez: Would you move closer.
Irene Peters: I investigate child abuse referrals for neglected, abused and abandoned children and exploited children. I work in a sensitive case unit which deals with high-profile-type cases. I've been working in there for maybe seven years. I also have numerous experiences in emotional abuse, sexual abuse, physical abuse, you name it, after 30 years.
Mr. Mesereau: And to have a position like this, what kind of training do you have to go through?
Irene Peters: Well, I have extensive training. I've graduated from Cal-State Los Angeles years ago. It was 25 years ago. I also get extensive training from our department in different areas on a monthly basis, or whatever.
Mr. Mesereau: And is there a particular office that you operate out of in Los Angeles?
Irene Peters: Yes, it is.
Mr. Mesereau: And where is that?
Irene Peters: It's on Wilshire and Vermont, in that area.
Mr. Mesereau: Are there other offices that DCFS has in Los Angeles?
Irene Peters: Yes, there is.
Mr. Mesereau: And is there any particular reason why you're located at that office?
Irene Peters: Well, that's the region that we're in. We're in different regions, and the particular unit that I'm in is housed in that particular building.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, have you taken courses periodically during your 30 years?
Irene Peters: Yes, I have.
Mr. Mesereau: What courses have you taken?
Irene Peters: Oh, wow.
Mr. Mesereau: If you could just summarize them.
Irene Peters: Interviewing exploited children. Interviewing sexually abused children. Interviewing -- oh, wow. Let me see. I've also done child's play. You know, it's so many, I can't -- right off the hand, I just can't.
Mr. Mesereau: As part of your job, are you asked to periodically take courses like this?
Irene Peters: Yes. Maltreatment of children. So numerous, I just can't remember all of them.
Mr. Mesereau: As part of your responsibilities, do you get periodic updates on the latest information about your field?
Irene Peters: Yes, I do. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How is that done?
Irene Peters: We're asked if we need training in certain things. They give us an opportunity to participate in the trainings.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you get lectures from various researchers about information they've developed in your field?
Irene Peters: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: Is continuing education a part of your job?
Irene Peters: Yes, it is.
Mr. Mesereau: And to become a social worker like you are, do you have to obtain a certificate or any type of diploma?
Irene Peters: Most of the social workers have masters in social work, yes. And I came up from the bottom up, as -- with a BSW in social work, and worked myself up.
Mr. Mesereau: And does a social worker like you have a particular certificate or a license or anything of that sort that you obtain with --
Irene Peters: I don't have a license, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Have your responsibilities at that agency pretty much been the same since you started?
Irene Peters: Well, they've changed, because I work different positions.
Mr. Mesereau: Just summarize your different positions, if you would.
Irene Peters: I worked at the MacLaren Children's Center, which is used for temporary shelter for children. I worked there for over 12 years, working with kids for various problems. Most of the kids just directly came from their homes and were placed in the shelter care there. I was what you call the team leader of the unit where the children were housed, so I deal with a variety of various children with different problems.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, in the unit you're in currently, were you in that unit in 2003?
Irene Peters: Yes, I was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When did you begin working in this particular unit?
Irene Peters: Let me see. About maybe three or four years ago. I had multiple units. I was dealing with three different units at the time. I deal with children who have special needs, health issues. Also was dealing with minor parents, pregnant mothers, and I was dealing with a sensitive case unit. So it was three different units, basically.
Mr. Mesereau: And does your current unit, which was the unit you were in in 2003, have a particular purpose?
Irene Peters: Yes. We deal with those cases that are high-profile cases, cases that you see on the news, the media cases. We also deal with a lot of police officers, sheriffs, of some sort.
Mr. Mesereau: And does the fact that a case might be high-profile affect the nature of your work?
Irene Peters: Yes, it does.
Mr. Mesereau: How does it?
Irene Peters: High-level degree of confidentiality, the way we handle the case. I think this case was started about 10 or 11 years ago because of some things that were happening, and so a special unit handles those cases.
Mr. Mesereau: And if someone is high-profile, let's say they're a celebrity that's well known, is it your understanding that they may be more of a target for complaints?
Irene Peters: Well, not more of a target. I think that when those cases do come through the child abuse hotline, that those cases are put in a certain unit so that they would not have any leakage going on or anything that would get out.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you familiar with someone named Gloria Allred?
Irene Peters: Yes, I am.
Mr. Mesereau: And who is she, to your knowledge?
Irene Peters: She's an attorney.
Mr. Mesereau: And is she known to appear on T.V. a lot?
Irene Peters: Yes, she is.
Mr. Mesereau: Is she known to generate a lot of controversy?
Irene Peters: Yes, she is.
Mr. Mesereau: And have you ever received reports from her that you know of?
Irene Peters: The existing report that we got, the first report from -- I think it was February the 14th, 2002 -- '3, we're talking about, on the referral, her name is mentioned on the referral.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And she made a report about Michael Jackson to your agency, right?
Irene Peters: It was mentioned in the report. There is another report I think that she did make a report.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: But the report I went out on, 2-14, her name was just mentioned in the report.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Let's talk about what you did on February 14th, 2003, okay?
Irene Peters: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me begin by asking if you know someone or have ever met someone named Janet Arvizo?
Irene Peters: Yes, I have.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you first meet Janet Arvizo?
Irene Peters: To give you just a little background on how it happens, you get a child abuse referral from the hotline, and then it's framed out to certain units. And the unit that this particular referral was framed out to was our unit, sensitive case unit due to the nature of the case. From there, you go out and make -- you go out and attempt to make contact with that person. So that's what I was doing, I received it on 2-14, and at that point I read the referral and the allegations. From there, I decided to call the Los Angeles Police Department, because of the nature of the case, because they said it was sexual abuse. And anytime there's a sexual abuse, that could be a criminal, so we have to have the police involved, because they would be the one that would make the decision whether or not to detain the children.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me just go step by step, if I can.
Irene Peters: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: You have received a hotline referral, right?
Irene Peters: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And the hotline is a number that's public?
Irene Peters: It's -- yes, it's public knowledge.
Mr. Mesereau: Anybody can call it and make an accusation if they want, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: They don't have to reveal their name, right?
Irene Peters: No, they do not. No.
Mr. Mesereau: They can simply call up any time of day and say, “Yeah, I believe somebody might be doing something improper”, right?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: The complaints can be legitimate ones or they can be totally frivolous, right?
Irene Peters: Exactly.
Mr. Mesereau: But it's a number that's available to the public so they can make reports if they choose, right?
Irene Peters: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: And very often, on that hotline, people remain anonymous, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, they do.
Mr. Mesereau: So you never have a chance to investigate the background of the person who made the complaint, right?
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object as leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: If an anonymous complaint comes in, what is the first thing that you, as a social worker in your particular unit, will do with that particular complaint?
Irene Peters: I'm not the one that receives the referral, so this is anonymous. It comes through a telephone.
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Irene Peters: There's a hotline number. You call and say, “I want to be anonymous”. So at that point we don't do anything. When we do get people who want to not remain anonymous, we can, in fact, call them as a collateral contact to get information, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: So basically, generally speaking, you learned there was a referral?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't necessarily know if it's a good referral or a bad referral, right?
Irene Peters: No, we don't.
Mr. Mesereau: And you just follow up on the referral?
Irene Peters: Exactly.
Mr. Mesereau: That's part of your job, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, it is.
Mr. Mesereau: Let's get to Janet Arvizo. You learned that somebody had made a referral questioning Janet Arvizo and Michael Jackson, right?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you learned that somebody had made a referral because they saw a documentary on television, right?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: The documentary was now known as the Bashir documentary, right?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And somebody made a referral saying that they had seen the documentary and they wanted you to look into Janet's actions and Michael Jackson's actions, right?
Irene Peters: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you then were assigned to that particular case, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was anyone else assigned to it with you?
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And your first action was to study what information you had and then call the police, right?
Irene Peters: I read the referral of the allegations. The allegations were for general neglect.
Mr. Mesereau: By Janet Arvizo?
Irene Peters: Janet Arvizo, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: So what did you do after you saw this referral that suggested there might be some general neglect by Janet Arvizo?
Irene Peters: I had to go out and investigate the referral.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how did you do that?
Irene Peters: I went to the home of the address that was listed on the referral, and from there -- first I called the LAPD, and I talked to the child abuse unit, and they sent two officers out there with me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where did you go with the two officers?
Irene Peters: We went to the address that was listed on the referral.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you remember approximately where that?
Irene Peters: 415 -- I think it's 450, it's like off of Wilshire. It wasn't that far from my office.
Mr. Mesereau: And was that St. Andrews?
Irene Peters: St. Andrews, that's it.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did you get that address from the person who made the referral?
Irene Peters: I got the address from the referral that came to my desk, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you learn that that was the address of a Major Jay Jackson?
Irene Peters: I only learned that after I got there. Because I was looking on the roster to see whether or not her name was on there. So when I looked on the roster, I didn't see -- but I did see “Jackson”, so I connected -- I said, “Well, maybe perhaps this is Jackson and she's” -- you know. But I talked to the superintendent of the apartment and he said there was no African-Americans or Mexican-Americans living in that particular complex.
Mr. Mesereau: So did you determine that there was no connection between Jay Jackson and --
Irene Peters: No, I didn't. I did not know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What did you do next?
Irene Peters: After that, I talked to the police officers, and they told me that they didn't have any jurisdiction in Los Angeles, because the incident happened in Santa Barbara, and that was the end of that. And so from there, I think the next -- it was like a Friday -- and I went to work on a Tuesday, and I tried to contact the school that the children were going to. And I went over to the school and talked to a counselor there, and it was just coincidental that she happened to call, Janet happened to call the school while I was sitting there. And I told her that I needed to come and talk to her and interview her, and I had an allegation that I need to talk to her about.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you do that?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And just to clarify, where was that interview?
Irene Peters: The interview took place on St. Andrews.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So that was Major Jay Jackson's home --
Irene Peters: Yes, it was.
Mr. Mesereau: -- right? Now, who did you go there with for the actual interview?
Irene Peters: I requested that my supervisor go with me and another co-worker.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know what their names were?
Irene Peters: Yes. Jackie Bowen and Karen Walker.
Mr. Mesereau: And what is your typical procedure when you interview someone about a referral like this?
Irene Peters: What I do is I read the referral, the allegations, first to them. And then I start to ask questions regarding the referral.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did you believe that Janet Arvizo lived at that address?
Irene Peters: I knew she didn't live there. Because she told me.
Mr. Mesereau: And why was the interview being conducted there?
Irene Peters: Because she did not -- I didn't have an address for her, and this is an address was given, I think because the kids were going to the school in that area, and this is the address that they were using.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know whether or not Janet Arvizo and the children lived at that address from time to time?
Irene Peters: I think they -- yes, she did tell me that they lived there periodically, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, did she choose that address to be interviewed at?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you wonder why she wanted that address, or was it just okay for her to pick whatever location she wanted?
Irene Peters: No, she told me that she was hiding out from the media because of the Bashir interview, and the kids had been getting into a lot of squabbles and things with people on the streets. And she lived in East Los Angeles, and she lived in a small apartment, studio apartment, and she paid only $700 a month for rent. She was on welfare, and that she thought this was the best place for her to be at this time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, she told you she was on welfare?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your obligation to check out whether or not she was properly on welfare?
Irene Peters: Well, we have a computer system that does reflect if a person's getting what they call Cal-Works or not. We know that information.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you didn't know whether or not she had told the truth when she applied for welfare?
Irene Peters: No, I didn't --
Mr. Sneddon: Objection, Your Honor. Lack of foundation; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Your job at your agency was not to determine whether she was properly receiving any public assistance, right?
Irene Peters: No, because I don't deal with that aspect of it. I deal with abused children.
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: She told you what her rent was at the apartment in East Los Angeles, right?
Irene Peters: She told me how much money she was receiving from welfare.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did she tell you she had some financial problems?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What did she tell you they were?
Irene Peters: Well, she said since the -- her separation and past domestic violence issues with her husband, she's living on a medium income. She only has, like, $700. She was very emphatic about it. And that they were sleeping on the floor. She barely had enough money to make it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And again, this is -- she tells you this on February 14th, 2003?
Irene Peters: No, it was February 20th.
Mr. Mesereau: February 20th, 2003?
Irene Peters: I went to the home on February 14th. I didn't get in touch with her until the 20th.
Mr. Mesereau: So February 20th, 2003, she is at St. Andrews Place with her children, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, she is.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall anyone else being there with her?
Irene Peters: When I walked in, there was several people that were there, which was kind of unusual. But it was two -- two guys, a young lady and her son, and of course the children and her. And the three people that were with me, my social -- my supervisor and also one of my co-workers. So there was quite a few people there.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately what time of day this was?
Irene Peters: Like 12:00.
Mr. Mesereau: Twelve noon?
Irene Peters: Yeah, around that. I can't remember what exact time it was. Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And you saw another woman with her child, right?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you learn that her name was Azja Pryor?
Irene Peters: Well, I did. I mean, back to memory, I think it was Chris Tucker's girlfriend and his child. And someone from Michael Jackson's -- I don't know if he was a security guard or what.
Mr. Mesereau: And anyone else you remember seeing besides the Arvizo family?
Irene Peters: There was another guy there. Can't remember his name.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, did you have to walk up the stairs --
Irene Peters: Yes, we did.
Mr. Mesereau: -- to get into this apartment?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And the three of you arrived together?
Irene Peters: Yes, we did.
Mr. Mesereau: All of you from the social agency, right?
Irene Peters: Children's Services, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were the other two people with you part of your unit as well?
Irene Peters: Yes, they were.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, would it be normal to bring three of you for an interview?
Irene Peters: Not normally.
Mr. Mesereau: Why did you do it this time?
Irene Peters: Why did I do it? I just thought I needed some support.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You knocked on the door, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: You were allowed in?
Irene Peters: Yes, I was.
Mr. Mesereau: And what is the next thing you saw?
Irene Peters: Immediately when I walked into the room, I noticed all the people sitting there. And Miss Arvizo -- at the time I thought her name was Janet Ventura. Am I correct?
Mr. Mesereau: Uh-huh.
Irene Peters: She came over to me and says, “Oh, please, sit down. Sit down. I want you to come over to the video” -- “the T.V. and watch a video”. And I thought it was kind of odd, but I did it. And we all sat down. And it was a video of Michael Jackson and Gavin walking around Neverland looking at the swans and just basically riding on the train or something like that, of that nature.
Mr. Mesereau: So “she” meaning Janet?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Wanted to start off the meeting by you seeing a video?
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object to that question with the editorial comment. Move to strike.
The Court: Sustained. Stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there any discussion that you had with Janet before she showed you this video of Michael Jackson and Gavin at Neverland?
Irene Peters: Not really.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: That was the first thing she did immediately upon my arrival.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she show the video to the three of you?
Irene Peters: All of us that were there, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you talk to her during the video or did everybody just watch it?
Irene Peters: No, we just watched it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What happened after the video was completed?
Irene Peters: Okay. After the video was completed, my supervisor requested that all the people that were not involved in the referral, that they had to leave the premises.
Mr. Mesereau: And --
Irene Peters: And she was --
Mr. Mesereau: -- what happened?
Irene Peters: She was a little -- she objected to it, because she felt that those people were there to support her through this whole ordeal, and they were her friends. And we explained to them the level of confidentiality, and that they were not to be there, so we asked them to leave.
Mr. Mesereau: And you asked Janet to have them leave?
Irene Peters: We asked them to leave.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you say, “We asked them to leave” --
Irene Peters: The supervisor did.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you say you wanted them to leave, who are you referring to?
Irene Peters: I'm referring to the two guys from Michael Jackson's camp or whatever, and Azja was her name, and the child. Who else was there? And that was it.
Mr. Mesereau: And did they leave when you made that request?
Irene Peters: Yes, they did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they leave the premises?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So these people left, and who were you then with in the apartment?
Irene Peters: It was Star, Gavin, Davellin -- Davellin I think was her name -- and Karen Walker, which is the supervisor, Jackie Bowen, which is another social worker, and myself.
Mr. Mesereau: So at that point, just the three social workers, including you and the Arvizo family?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: No one else was there at that point?
Irene Peters: No one else.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what did you do after that?
Irene Peters: I proceeded to talk to the mother and I read the allegations to her.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: And were the children present when you did that?
Irene Peters: Yes, they were.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that standard procedure?
Irene Peters: Yeah. I made the -- I just read the allegations. What I did was I took Gavin into another room, and then I was -- I had -- the other worker was going to interview Star and the other one was going to interview Davellin. But when I started to talk to Gavin, the mother came into the room and knocked on the door, and she asked me whether it was okay if she would be present, which if a parent wants to be present during the interview, they are allowed to be present.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you interview Gavin?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you interview Star?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you interview Davellin?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you interview Janet?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately how long did it take to do all these interviews, if you remember?
Irene Peters: Maybe two and a half hours.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: Three hours.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, was anything recorded?
Irene Peters: Yes, I recorded it -- no, not recorded -- do you mean like tape-record something?
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah.
Irene Peters: No, we're not allowed to tape-record.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you just take notes?
Irene Peters: I have to take notes.
Mr. Mesereau: And typically, after you conduct an interview like this, what do you do with your notes?
Irene Peters: I keep them.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you make a report?
Irene Peters: Well, I have to write a report, yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you write a report in this case?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Let's start with the interview you did with Janet. Have you looked at your report recently?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you ask Janet?
Irene Peters: I asked her -- when I read the allegations to her, I wanted to hear her comments. And she said, “Well, absolutely that is not true”, because I was interviewing her for general neglect.
Mr. Mesereau: What is general neglect?
Irene Peters: When you are neglecting your children. Like inadequate supervision, maybe you're not taking them to any medical or dental appointments. You're not -- they are not going to school. They're in poor environmental conditions. Things of that nature.
Mr. Mesereau: When you read Janet the allegation of general neglect, did you tell her where the allegation came from?
Irene Peters: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You just said there had been an allegation?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell her anything to suggest the allegation had been ever proven?
Irene Peters: No, that's why I'm there. My role is to investigate it.
Mr. Mesereau: Your role is to investigate it?
Irene Peters: Investigate, uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she respond to your description of the allegation?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: What did she tell you?
Irene Peters: She said that Michael's been like a father to her children; that she was very upset about it; that he has been very good to her children. He's more like a -- more than their father had ever been. She said she was totally appalled by all the negative attention that her children had been receiving since the Bashir document, tape, uh-huh. And she was upset -- excuse me. She was upset because she was saying that she doesn't have any consent to have her children be on T.V., and she was upset with Mr. Bashir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did she ever say anything negative about Michael Jackson?
Irene Peters: No, she didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she say anything about her ex-husband?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: What did she say?
Irene Peters: She talked about the past domestic violence issues and the anger and the frustration that she had been experiencing. And they had a -- what is it? -- a restraining order against him until 2004, and that he had been physically abusing her children, and the grandparents had deserted the children practically.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever say anything that suggested Michael Jackson had abused her children?
Irene Peters: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. She only praised him, right?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, what other questions did you ask Ms. Arvizo during your interview?
Irene Peters: I asked, “What usually happens when you go to Neverland?” And she told me that when she goes to Neverland, that the kids are usually in the big -- in the house, and sometimes she's in the -- this is another house that she's in. And she's usually very aware of what always goes on there, because she's very vigilant, she has a vigilant eye. And the kids play video games and watch T.V. And I asked her had the kids ever been in Michael Jackson's room on his bed. She said, “Yes, they have”, she said, “because the room” -- “the house is really big. The room is really big, and the kids all play in the room”. But she's aware of what goes on there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did she complain about anything that went on in Mr. Jackson's room?
Irene Peters: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever say anything bad went on in Mr. Jackson's room?
Irene Peters: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: And did she tell you how she supervises her kids at Neverland?
Irene Peters: She said that she's always aware of what the children were doing, that she's usually there. She's usually walking, up all night long. That's what she said.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you concerned about anything she told you about what happens at Neverland?
Irene Peters: Not really.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ask her any questions about her kids' schooling?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you ask in that regard?
Irene Peters: I asked, “What school do they attend?” “They attend John Burroughs Junior High School”, Stan -- I mean Star and Gavin. I think Star was in the -- Gavin was in the fourth percentile of the standard tests. She also told me that Gavin -- Star was having a few problems with a cyst on his brain or something like that, of that nature. She said they were doing well in school. The daughter was doing well in school. She went -- she attended school over in East Los Angeles. She said she was doing good in school. And -- basically.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it be accurate to say that Janet Arvizo denied the allegations of general neglect?
Irene Peters: Oh, yeah. I was going to get to that. She denied all allegations of general neglect. And one of the things we said, the kids are in school, they were neat, dressed clean, they were in a proper environment, so that's what I'm investigating, the general neglect of her.
Mr. Mesereau: Any other questions that you asked her that you haven't identified?
Irene Peters: I asked her -- I asked her about the relationship between she and Michael Jackson, and that's when she went on to say that he was like a father to her children, and that she thinks that he was responsible for helping Gavin to survive his cancer, for his cancer to be in remission.
Mr. Mesereau: Anything else you recall asking her in that interview?
Irene Peters: I asked -- I asked basically the same questions to each one of them.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Let's move --
Irene Peters: When she -- I did -- excuse me. I did ask her was she aware that Michael -- that the kids ever slept in the bed with Michael Jackson. And she told me no, that that never happened.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did she tell you what she does at Neverland when she stays there?
Irene Peters: She says watch movies and be in the park and sometimes she's in the house. And she's usually -- usually walking up all night long, she says, kind of busy.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you have any suspicions about anything she told you?
Irene Peters: Well, based on what she was saying, what she was reporting, I didn't have any suspicions about it, no, because this is an interview that we do in less than two or three hours. It's not like a police investigation.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she seem fairly confident about what she was saying?
Irene Peters: Pretty confident. Very anxious, very loquacious.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she seem like she wanted to talk to you?
Irene Peters: Yes, very much so. Very touchy-feely, kind of, warm kind of person.
Mr. Mesereau: When you say “touchy-feely”, what do you mean?
Irene Peters: Touchy, huggy, you know, overly, like a -- overly affectionate.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she seem very spontaneous in her answers to your questions?
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Calls for a conclusion. No foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Irene Peters: What was the question?
Mr. Mesereau: Did she seem very spontaneous in her answer?
Irene Peters: Yes, she's witty.
Mr. Mesereau: She's witty? Okay. How long do you think your interview of Janet lasted?
Irene Peters: Probably about 30, 40 minutes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And were her children present during the entire interview?
Irene Peters: They were there.
Mr. Mesereau: All three?
Irene Peters: All three.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when you interviewed Janet, would the children sort of speak out, or were they silent and you just questioned her, if you remember?
Irene Peters: They would say -- when she started to speak about Michael, they kind of interjected some things, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: The children did?
Irene Peters: Yes, they did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they all seem to be in agreement?
Irene Peters: Yes, they did.
Mr. Mesereau: About what she said to you?
Irene Peters: Yes, they did.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when you have an investigative interview like this, and you tell someone what the allegation is, in this case of course it was general neglect, do you tell the person you're talking to what the possible consequences could be of your investigation?
Irene Peters: No, I don't. I mean -- if -- if I felt that I had to -- that something was said during that interview, I would probably stop the interview. And that's why I said, because it was a sexual abuse issue here, that's when I would call the police department.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now --
Irene Peters: She's aware of that. She was aware of that, that those kids could possibly be detained if I thought in any way that those kids were being neglected.
Mr. Mesereau: So you told her that you had called the police department, right?
Irene Peters: No, I didn't tell her that.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't tell her that?
Irene Peters: No, I didn't tell her that. But this is one of the possibilities, had we gotten to that point, that's what I would have told her.
Mr. Mesereau: But the first time you went to see her, you were with some police officers, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes, I was.
Mr. Mesereau: And you didn't find her that particular day?
Irene Peters: No, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's the 14th?
Irene Peters: Yes, that's the 14th.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the police officers leave their card at that address?
Irene Peters: Yes. No, they left it with me.
Mr. Mesereau: Left it with you?
Irene Peters: Detective Brown and Barclauf, or something like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when you went to the location on the 14th and you didn't find Janet there --
Irene Peters: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: -- did you leave any message that you had been there?
Irene Peters: No, I didn't, because I wasn't aware that was the correct address, because I didn't see her name listed on the directory.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, when you spoke to Janet and the children on the 20th at Major Jay Jackson's home --
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- did anyone tell you that they were being held against their will by Michael Jackson?
Irene Peters: No, they did not.
Mr. Mesereau: During that interview did any of the family say they were being abused by Michael Jackson in any way?
Irene Peters: No, they did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did any member of the family say they were being falsely imprisoned at Neverland?
Irene Peters: No, they did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they say anything about their even wanting to go back to Neverland; if you know?
Irene Peters: You know what? She did ask me -- she wanted to know if I could have the interview at Neverland, the interview we were having, because she had requested that prior to me speaking to -- actually talking to her.
Mr. Mesereau: She wanted you to travel with the family to Neverland for the interview?
Irene Peters: She did suggest that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what was your reaction to that?
Irene Peters: No, no, I need to see where they were living.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did Ms. Arvizo or any of the children ever say anything that suggested they were being extorted or hurt by Mr. Jackson on that day, the 20th?
Irene Peters: No, she did not. The main complaint was she felt that the kids were being taped without her consent, and what could she do about it, because I did have some conversations with her after leaving her home.
Mr. Mesereau: When you say “taped without her consent”, let me talk --
Irene Peters: She means the Bashir tape.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: She didn't seem to have any problem with the videotape she showed you of Michael Jackson with Gavin?
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Mesereau: She wanted you to see that, right?
Irene Peters: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: She never complained about that tape, did she?
Irene Peters: No, she said she wanted to show me how caring and loving Michael was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Let me ask you about your interview on that day with Gavin. He was 13 years old, right?
Irene Peters: At the time, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you ask him?
Irene Peters: I asked him very point-blankly, had he ever slept in the bed with Michael Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did he say?
Irene Peters: He told me, “No”.
Mr. Mesereau: And what else did you ask him?
Irene Peters: I asked him what was his relationship with Michael Jackson. He told me how he met him; that he was at The Laugh Factory -- I mean, with Jamie Masada, and he wanted to grant a wish, and the wish was that he would meet Michael Jackson. He was in the hospital suffering with cancer. And his wish was granted, and they've had a relationship ever since. He was very fond of him. That he treated him like a father, and he really cared about him.
Mr. Mesereau: How long do you think your interview with Gavin lasted?
Irene Peters: About 30 minutes.
Mr. Mesereau: Are there typical questions that you would ask a 13-year-old in your work?
Irene Peters: Yes. I did ask him had he ever been touched sexually inappropriately at any time. He says -- and he became a little upset. He says, “Everybody thinks that Michael Jackson sexually abused me. He's never touched me”. And he was just very upset about it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did he ever complain about anything Michael Jackson had ever done?
Irene Peters: No, he did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did he continually praise Michael Jackson to you?
Irene Peters: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he ever complain about anything that was going on at Neverland?
Irene Peters: No, he did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what was his demeanor as you were interviewing him?
Irene Peters: Kind of playful. Appeared to enjoy the attention. Very articulate. Very smart kid.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Gavin present when Janet showed you the video of Michael Jackson and Gavin at Neverland?
Irene Peters: Yes, he was.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he ever say anything about that video to you?
Irene Peters: No, he did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you watched the video, was anybody speaking?
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Was everybody silent, just watching this?
Irene Peters: Was silent, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did anybody tell you how that video was made?
Irene Peters: No. No. Huh-uh.
Mr. Mesereau: But was it your impression that Janet, Gavin, Star and Davellin all wanted you to see a video?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your impression that they were all happy about that video?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: It's only the Bashir video they complained about, right?
Irene Peters: Yeah, they did complain about that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. Now, when you finished your interview with Janet, just based on what you knew at that point, what was your conclusion, if any?
Irene Peters: What I do is I -- I interview all the people involved.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: Then I go and I write a report, and I do -- I do the conclusion on the report.
Mr. Mesereau: So you hadn't formed any conclusion --
Irene Peters: Not at that time.
Mr. Mesereau: -- until you had done all the interviews, right?
Irene Peters: Until I did all the interviews.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You also interviewed Star Arvizo, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And what kind of questions did you ask Star?
Irene Peters: All the same questions.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: What was his relationship with Michael Jackson. “Has Michael Jackson ever sexually abused you or touched you inappropriately?” I asked, “What usually happens when you go to Neverland?” Three basic questions.
Mr. Mesereau: Uh-huh.
Irene Peters: I asked him about their mother, how she takes care of them, you know.
Mr. Mesereau: What did Gavin tell you about how his mother takes care of him?
Irene Peters: He praised his mother and talked about how good she takes care of him, and, you know, she's been by him through the cancer and the chemotherapy that he was going through.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me ask you about what Star told you. You asked him the same kinds of questions you asked Gavin, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: What did Star tell you?
Irene Peters: He praised Michael Jackson, said that he's been like a father to him, and he met him through his brother at the -- I mean, met him through his brother, after he was introduced by Jamie Masada, you know, to Michael Jackson. And he said they have fun when they go to Neverland, they usually do s'mores, be by the fireplace, they play around a lot. They said they had nicknames for each other. Michael had a nickname for him. His name was “Blowfish” And he said, “Michael can get loud, too, at some times”. You know, very 12 year-old.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Star say anything negative about Michael Jackson at any time?
Irene Peters: No, he did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he continually praise him?
Irene Peters: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What was Star's demeanor when you questioned him?
Irene Peters: He was a happy kid. He was --
Mr. Mesereau: Did Star seem spontaneous in his responses to you?
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Calls for a conclusion. Lack of foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Irene Peters: How did he seem?
Mr. Mesereau: Let me rephrase the question.
Mr. Mesereau: How many interviews do you think you had conducted of mothers and children at this point in your career? Would it be thousands?
Irene Peters: Oh, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Thousands?
Irene Peters: Thousands.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when you were interviewing Janet and these children, did they appear like they had memorized their answers or that they were following scripts to you, or did they seem like they were natural and spontaneous?
Mr. Sneddon: Same objection, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Irene Peters: It seemed spontaneous.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: The family, very interactive with each other. Seemed like they had a good relationship with their mom.
Mr. Mesereau: And when -- you said that when you interviewed Janet, the children would sometimes interject and speak up, right?
Irene Peters: Yes. Like in agreement.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when you were interviewing each child, Gavin, Star, Davellin, would others interject as well during those questions?
Irene Peters: Not much. No.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, for example, when you asked Gavin questions about Michael Jackson, do you recall the mother interjecting and saying?
Irene Peters: No, she didn't say anything.
Mr. Mesereau: How about the other kids?
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they allow you to interview --
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- interview each person separately --
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- even though they were there?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall anything else that Star had to say?
Irene Peters: Basically just little fun things, what goes on. He plays video games. He does that. Nothing else, no.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he ever say anything bad about Michael?
Irene Peters: No, he did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You interviewed Davellin, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And what kind of questions do you recall asking Davellin?
Irene Peters: I asked her the same questions.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: Relationship she had with Michael Jackson; what did she usually do when she goes into Neverland. And I also asked her the same questions, “Did anybody ever touch you inappropriately or make you feel uncomfortable?”
Mr. Mesereau: And what did she say?
Irene Peters: She said, “No”.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did she praise Michael Jackson?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, who told you that the family would prefer that you come to Neverland with them for the interview?
Irene Peters: Janet did.
Mr. Mesereau: Were the children with Janet when she said that?
Irene Peters: No, she told me that over the telephone. She had my cell phone number.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how did she get your cell phone number?
Irene Peters: Because when she called the school, I called her back on my cell phone number, so she had it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: You know, so --
Mr. Mesereau: Would this have been after the 14th?
Irene Peters: No, that was -- yeah, right, it was like maybe the 19th.
Mr. Mesereau: The 19th?
Irene Peters: I can't remember the exact day. I think the 20th was on a Tuesday. I'm not really sure. But it was prior to that when I went to the school and I spoke to the counselor.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: She did have my cell phone number. She did call me several times.
Mr. Mesereau: On the cell phone?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when Janet called you on the cell phone?
Irene Peters: Daily.
Mr. Mesereau: Daily?
Irene Peters: You know, I can't really recall, because it's been two years ago. But I do think it was like every other day or -- because I was investigating.
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Irene Peters: And she was really anxious to find out what I was going to say or whatever. I told her at that point if anything was going to happen, I would have done it the day of the initial interview, which would have been the 20th.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she call you on your cell phone before the 20th?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: She called me so we could make arrangements to have the interview.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know approximately when she first called you on your cell phone?
Irene Peters: We'll say the day of -- when I went to the school -- no, she called me maybe the next day. And so we can get the schedule together for the interview.
Mr. Mesereau: Sure. Is that between the 14th and the 20th?
Irene Peters: Yes, it is. I think the 14th was on a Friday, and the Monday I was off, and Tuesday I think is when I finally got in touch with her.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: All right. We'll take our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Peters, when we left off, you mentioned that Janet Arvizo had your cell phone number in February of 2003, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And I believe you said she got your cell phone number sometime after you and the police officers tried to find her on the 14th; is that correct?
Irene Peters: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And I think you said this, but I apologize, I can't remember. How do you think she got your cell phone number?
Irene Peters: Because I called her back on my -- when I went to the school, the school gave me her phone number.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: And I called her on my cell number.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And she had your cell phone number after that particular call?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said she called you a number of times, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, several times. I don't know how many times, but I talked to her several times.
Mr. Mesereau: And I believe you said sometime before your interview on the 20th, she called you and said, “Why don't we have the interview at Neverland?” Right?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you refused, right?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And why is that?
Irene Peters: Because I have to interview where the children supposedly are staying. But I could not go to the address in East L.A., because, first of all, I didn't know it, and that was the address that was listed on the referral.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. Now, how many times before your interview on the 20th do you think Janet Arvizo called your cell phone number?
Irene Peters: Maybe two or three times.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. In any of those calls, did Janet Arvizo ever tell you she was being held against her will?
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Mesereau: In any of those calls, did Janet Arvizo tell you that she was being falsely imprisoned by anyone connected to Michael Jackson?
Irene Peters: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: In any of those calls, did Janet Arvizo tell you that her children were being held against their will by Michael Jackson?
Irene Peters: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: In any of those calls, did Mrs. Arvizo ever say that her children were being held against their will by anyone associated with Michael Jackson?
Irene Peters: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: In any of those calls, did Janet Arvizo tell you that she was the victim of extortion?
Irene Peters: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: In any of those calls, did Janet Arvizo say that her children were the victim of extortion?
Irene Peters: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: In any of those calls, did Janet Arvizo ask you to call the police --
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Mesereau: -- because she was --
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Mesereau: -- the victim of crime?
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Mesereau: In any of those calls, did Janet Arvizo say, “Our family is being kidnapped”?
Irene Peters: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, after your interview with the Arvizo family on the 20th at Jay Jackson's apartment, did Janet continue to call you on the cell phone?
Irene Peters: She called the office several times. She also spoke to the supervisor. I talked to her maybe a few more times on the cell phone.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And in any of those calls on the cell phone, did Janet Arvizo tell you, “My family is the victim of crime”?
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Asked and answered, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: This is after the 20th, Your Honor.
Irene Peters: After the 20th?
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Irene Peters: But I did see her.
Mr. Mesereau: We'll get to that. But I'm asking you about these cell phone calls.
Irene Peters: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: In any of those cell phone calls after the 20th, did Janet Arvizo say, “My family is being held against their will”?
Mr. Sneddon: Object as leading.
Irene Peters: No.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: You --
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And in any of those cell phone calls after the 20th, did Janet Arvizo tell you words to the effect, “Please call the police. My family is being falsely imprisoned”?
Irene Peters: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. In any of those cell phone calls after the 20th, did Janet Arvizo say Michael Jackson is doing anything improper?
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Would it be correct to say that the cell phone calls that Janet Arvizo made to you after the 20th were primarily concerned with what your report was going to be?
Irene Peters: Yes. Basically. And she was complaining about -- she was complaining about what could she do to try to -- with not being -- what could she do about the Bashir document being seen without her consent --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: -- basically. And she asked me, and I told her I was not a lawyer, I was a social worker, and maybe she should get a lawyer if you want to pursue it. That's what I told her.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever suggest to you that she or her children should have been paid for appearing on the Bashir interview?
Irene Peters: Mainly concerned about the fact that they did not have her consent.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did she ever say anything about they should have been paid?
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Asked and answered.
Irene Peters: No.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall yourself discussing anything with Janet Arvizo about whether her kids should be compensated?
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Irene Peters: She did not say “compensated”. She wanted to know what could she do, what grounds -- what legal grounds did she have against it if she did not have consent, did not give her kids consent. She didn't have her consent to have her kids shown on T.V.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. Just one point about the beginning of the interview at the Jackson apartment on the 20th. Did Janet Arvizo show you pictures of her family with celebrities on that day?
Irene Peters: I don't think so. No.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't recall her bringing out photos?
Irene Peters: I don't recall. Maybe she did.
Mr. Mesereau: But you do recall the video she showed you, of course?
Irene Peters: Yeah, the video.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't recall her showing you photos of celebrities?
Irene Peters: You know, maybe she did. I can't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right.
Irene Peters: That I cannot remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Is it possible she did that after the tape was played?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as asked and answered. Calls for speculation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: After the tape of Michael Jackson and Gavin was played at that apartment, did Janet Arvizo ever tell you the names of any celebrities she knew?
Irene Peters: Yeah, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: What did she say?
Irene Peters: She talked about Chris Tucker and his coming over to the house, and I think they were having -- making s'mores or something, and they were around the fireplace. And she talked about a few other people. I can't really remember. I was there to investigate the general neglect. I got, you know --
Mr. Mesereau: Did it appear to you that she was trying to impress you about the celebrities she knew?
Irene Peters: In what way? Do you want my observation?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you mentioned that Janet talked to you about her son Star having a cyst on his brain.
Irene Peters: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember what she said about that?
Irene Peters: That's all she said. And I asked her the doctor's name. She told me Kaiser. I called the hospital. I tried to call the doctor. I never did get any response from them. Star's -- not “Star's”. Gavin's doctor, the oncologist, I think it is. Oncologist. I think it was Dr. Cooper. I did attempt to get in touch with him.
The Court: They're having trouble hearing. You need to lean into the microphone.
Irene Peters: I'm sorry. I did attempt to get in touch with him.
The Court: No, that's the wrong microphone.
Irene Peters: The wrong one?
The Court: Yeah. There you go.
Irene Peters: I did attempt to get in touch with him. I didn't get any response. We have so many days to respond to a referral.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How many days do you have to respond to a referral?
Irene Peters: 30.
Mr. Mesereau: 30?
Irene Peters: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: And it took me a little while to get in touch with her. About eight, seven days.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, typically, after you conduct the interview with the family, which you of course did on the 20th of February, 2003, what do you typically do next in your investigation?
Irene Peters: I make a decision based on the information that's gathered.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you make a decision at some point?
Irene Peters: I had to, yeah. I made a decision.
Mr. Mesereau: What was your decision?
Irene Peters: On the 27th of February. That the allegations for general neglect of mother, Janet Ventura, the allegations of sexual abuse by Michael Jackson were unfounded at that time --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: -- based on the information received.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, what are some of the factors that went into your conclusions?
Irene Peters: For general neglect, as I explained to you earlier, the kids were in school. They were all medically being treated. They had supervision. They had shelter, food, clothing. They were not in any way in an unsafe environment. Those are the factors that went into that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when you formed your conclusions, what did you do with them?
Irene Peters: Well, I have to write them. I write what they call an Allegation and Investigation Narrative of the referral, the allegations. And I went through all of the above things that we've been speaking about or what -- the questions that I asked them and what were the answers in response to them. After that I write what they call a Conclusion based on the information gathered and received.
Mr. Mesereau: And you put your conclusions in written form?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you do with the written report?
Irene Peters: It is turned in to the supervisor. It was via our computer. It goes directly to the supervisor, and she reviews it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how long do you think Janet continued to call you on your cell phone?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object. Vague as to time.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it.
Irene Peters: She called the job also.
Mr. Mesereau: I have to rephrase the question. I'm sorry.
Irene Peters: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: After your interview on February 20th, 2003, you've indicated that Janet continued to call you on your cell phone, right?
Irene Peters: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: For how long after February 20th do you think she called you on your cell phone?
Irene Peters: Just a few times. She also called the job a lot, and she was calling my supervisor a lot.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object to that. Hearsay; lack of foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Bailiff Cortez: Your microphone's off, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether or not Janet was calling your supervisor after February 20th?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Objection. Lack of foundation; calls for hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you keep in touch with your supervisor about Janet Arvizo after the interview on February 20th?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And how often would you talk to your supervisor about the investigation into the Arvizos?
Irene Peters: While I was writing the report, after I wrote the report, I talked to her about it, and if there's anything that she sees that maybe need to be changed or make some corrections, she would do it at that particular time. We also took it to what they call -- the assistant regional administrator had to look at it also.
Mr. Mesereau: Now --
Mr. Sneddon: Move to strike as nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained. Stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: If someone who's under investigation calls your agency on the phone, is a record made of that call?
Irene Peters: Repeat the question.
Mr. Mesereau: Sure. If someone who is being investigated by your agency for allegations of general neglect calls your office on the phone --
Irene Peters: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: -- are records kept of those calls?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How are those records kept?
Irene Peters: The contact is made on the phone. I am to put it in the computer. We have a tracking system. Sometimes it's not done. Sometimes it's done on paper and later entered into what is called CWCMS, which is our computer system.
Mr. Mesereau: If you're responsible for investigating someone for allegations of general neglect, is one of your responsibilities to know whether or not that person is calling your agency?
Irene Peters: That's just record-keeping, you know. Telephone contacts, personal contacts, visits, it's all part of the report.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you did your report on your investigation into the Arvizos, did you take into account contacts between the Arvizos and your agency?
Irene Peters: No, it's just a record. It's record-keeping.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did Janet Arvizo ever call you at your agency?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times do you think she did that after February 20th, 2003?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, that's been asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever -- did you have any knowledge of Janet calling your supervisor after February 20th?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object. Lack of foundation; calls for hearsay; and it was asked and answered.
The Court: Overruled. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you discuss with your supervisor conversations your supervisor had had with Janet Arvizo after February 20th, 2003?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did your supervisor ever tell you that Janet complained she was being falsely imprisoned?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object. It's hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: And --
Mr. Mesereau: During the period of time that you were investigating Janet Arvizo and her family, did you have the ability to immediately get in touch with police officers if you had to?
Irene Peters: Oh, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And how would you have done that?
Irene Peters: We would call. If I thought there was any doubt in my mind that there was any abuse going on, we would be in children's court.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And at no time during your investigation into Janet Arvizo did you ever call the police in Los Angeles and report that any crime was being committed on the Arvizos, right?
Irene Peters: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: In fact, you're not aware of anyone at your agency ever contacting the Los Angeles Police Department because they had gotten a report that Janet and her children were the victim of criminal conduct, right?
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object as leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether or not your supervisor at any time ever called the Los Angeles Police Department to get the police involved in any false imprisonment of the Arvizo family?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I object to the question as being a lack of foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: And calling for hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall running into Janet Arvizo around April 1st, 2003?
Irene Peters: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did you see Janet Arvizo on that day?
Irene Peters: Can I say the Fatburger? At Fatburger.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. And where was the -- excuse me. Where was the Fatburger located?
Irene Peters: On Wilshire and Highland.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, Wilshire is a main thoroughfare through Los Angeles, right?
Irene Peters: It's down the street from where I work.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And had you walked from where you worked to the Fatburger?
Irene Peters: Oh, no, I couldn't walk.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was this around lunchtime?
Irene Peters: Yeah, it was lunchtime.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you see Janet and her children at the Fatburger?
Irene Peters: To my amazement I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what were they doing at the Fatburger, to your knowledge?
Irene Peters: I was going to Fatburger to eat. And she was going to take the kids to tutoring.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she tell you where the tutoring was?
Irene Peters: It was upstairs. She showed me where it was.
Mr. Mesereau: When you say “upstairs” --
Irene Peters: Upstairs in the complex.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, which complex is this?
Irene Peters: It's a little complex with Fatburger, a Subway, and El Pollo Loco and some other things.
Mr. Mesereau: Is this like an office-type building?
Irene Peters: No, it's a -- a bunch of little stores.
Mr. Mesereau: So do you mean on a second level?
Irene Peters: Yeah, on the second level.
Mr. Mesereau: And she told you there was a tutoring center there?
Irene Peters: Yeah. She was taking them to tutoring, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did she tell you anything about the tutoring that was going on?
Irene Peters: She just said she had to go to tutoring because the kids had missed so much school dealing with the whole issue with the video -- I mean, the broadcast and everything about the Bashir, that they missed so much school, and she didn't have any money, and that she did tell me that Michael wanted to send them to Brazil somewhere.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: And she didn't want to go. She didn't know any people there. And she was disgusted. And she hadn't -- as a matter of fact, she told me she hadn't seen him.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she say words to the effect, “I don't want to go to that dump”, meaning Brazil?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she tell you where she was living at the time?
Irene Peters: We didn't get into that. I didn't ask her where she was living. I think my supervisor might have asked her, because I was trying to distance myself.
Mr. Mesereau: From her?
Irene Peters: Yeah. Because most of the time I see clients on the streets, because, you know, it's local. I try not to engage conversation.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you saw Janet and the children at Fatburger, did it look like they were being restrained?
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Mesereau: When you saw Janet at the -- and the children at the Fatburger, did it look like they were being held against their will?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to these questions. This is April of 2003. It's irrelevant.
The Court: Overruled.
Irene Peters: No, they did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she tell you whether or not any plane tickets had ever been purchased for any Brazil trip?
Irene Peters: No, she just mentioned it. She mentioned that he wanted them to go to Brazil.
Mr. Mesereau: And she said she wouldn't go?
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that what she said?
Irene Peters: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: She said she won't go to that dump?
Irene Peters: Yeah, right. Basically, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: We talked a little bit more, but I asked how the children were doing. Said they were doing okay, except they missed a lot of school, you know.
Mr. Mesereau: When you saw Janet and the kids at the Fatburger, did Janet ever ask you to call the police?
Irene Peters: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Going back just a little bit and then I'll finish, when you first made contact with Janet Arvizo, did you tell her that you had gone to the address with some police officers on the 14th?
Irene Peters: To be very honest, I'm not really sure if I mentioned to her, but I'm quite sure I did, knowing how I am. I'm quite sure I did.
Mr. Mesereau: You typically will tell --
Irene Peters: Yeah, I told her I came there looking for her with the police, uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you said that, she never said, “Call the police. We're in trouble”?
Irene Peters: No, that was the first -- that was on the 20th -- on the 14th when I first went to the home --
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Irene Peters: -- of Major Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah.
Irene Peters: I just kind of mentioned it to her, that I did try to contact her there at that particular address.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell her you tried to contact her at that address with some police officers?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever tell you words to the effect, “Please call those police officers. We're being held against our will”?
Irene Peters: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me rephrase that. Let's go back to the 20th. Did you ever ask any of the Arvizo children in that interview about their father?
Irene Peters: We spoke of their father briefly.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: With the domestic violence issues and --
Mr. Mesereau: You talked about all that?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Before you arrived to interview the Arvizos on the 20th, had you done any search to see if they'd had prior contacts with your agency?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you do in that regard?
Irene Peters: When the referrals come through, we know that if -- if there has been another referral, so what I did was I researched it. I looked it up.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you find?
Irene Peters: I found that there was an allegation of domestic violence against the father of the family. And then we tried to do voluntary family maintenance services with our department, which is done for six months with supervision by the Department of Children & Family Services.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you learn whether or not, in 1996, Gavin had accused his mother of molesting him?
Irene Peters: You know what? I think that was pre our computer system and everything was on hard copy, so that information was not made privy to me.
Mr. Mesereau: But you did obtain the information at some point?
Irene Peters: I'm not aware of that one, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Are you aware of any contact between Janet, Gavin and your agency in 1996?
Irene Peters: No, I'm not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Thank you. No further questions.
Irene Peters: Thank you.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Good morning.
Irene Peters: Good morning.
Mr. Sneddon: Is it Mrs. Peters?
Irene Peters: Ms.
Mr. Sneddon: Ms.? Okay. I just want to ask you a few questions about the unit you worked in, if we can, and a little bit about your background.
Irene Peters: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to the unit, I believe you -- you indicated that that unit was formed shortly after 1994; is that correct?
Irene Peters: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: And it was formed as a result of prior allegations made against the defendant in this case, Mr. Jackson, because information was leaked, correct?
Irene Peters: That's what I hear, yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Irene Peters: That's what I understand.
Mr. Sneddon: And prior to that time, when information came in on the hotline, was there a working relationship at that time between the Los Angeles Police Department and your department to jointly investigate allegations that come off the hotline?
Irene Peters: Allegations of sexual abuse --
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am.
Irene Peters: -- which is criminal.
Mr. Sneddon: There was a partnership, correct?
Irene Peters: That's always been, yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: And in fact, some of those officers who worked that unit are located at the same -- some co-located with your workers?
Irene Peters: No, they're not.
Mr. Sneddon: They're at different locations?
Irene Peters: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: But you work together?
Irene Peters: Yeah. We work with the police department, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, with the formation of this unit, do you no longer work with the LAPD on sensitive case information, in other words?
Irene Peters: Rephrase the question.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah, maybe it's a bad question. Let me ask it this way: If an allegation had come in back in 1994 of the type that you got in this particular case, a member from your department and a member from the police department, Los Angeles Police Department, would have been working on the case, correct?
Irene Peters: No. We would have to request that. If we felt at the time of the interview, that we were having an interview, and a referral came in, and there was allegations of sexual abuse, at that point what we would do, if I'm investigating someone at that time, I would call the police. Not on all occasions do I actually go out there with a police officer.
Mr. Sneddon: Maybe I misspoke. I was asking about what the procedure was back in 1993.
Irene Peters: 1994, which is 11 years ago, the procedures are still the same, basically. If there's allegations of sexual abuse, which is criminal, we are to call the police department if, in fact, the allegations are true.
Mr. Sneddon: So it would be your testimony, then, that back in '94, the original interview would have been done by somebody from your department, and then Los Angeles Police Department would be called in?
Irene Peters: Only if --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; beyond the scope.
The Court: Just a minute. Overruled. You may answer.
Irene Peters: I can answer?
Mr. Sneddon: Sure. Go ahead.
Irene Peters: Only if the allegations were deemed to be true. We don't take them out every case.
Mr. Sneddon: But on some cases you do?
Irene Peters: Yes, we do. You know, it just depends.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And I think you told the jury that one of the options that you have available to you when you go out to investigate allegations of neglect or abuse is to -- after the interview, if you conclude that the children are not in a safe environment, is to remove those children immediately from that environment, correct?
Irene Peters: Exactly.
Mr. Sneddon: And you've done that on several occasions?
Irene Peters: Oh, yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Many occasions?
Irene Peters: Many occasions.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to your training, I think you -- in response to Mr. Mesereau's questions, you indicated that you had a lot of ongoing training in the department on a regular basis?
Irene Peters: Yes, we have mandatory training.
Mr. Sneddon: That deals with emotional abuse?
Irene Peters: All kind of issues, yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Child sexual abuse?
Irene Peters: Yes. I mean, I can't even run them off, all the names, but mostly everything.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And --
Irene Peters: New procedures --
Mr. Sneddon: -- as a result of -- go ahead. I didn't mean to cut you off.
Irene Peters: No, I was just saying policy, procedures and new things, and --
Mr. Sneddon: I think what I'd like to do is just focus a little bit about the training that you've had with regard to interviewing children who may have been the victims, alleged victims, of a sexual abuse, okay?
Irene Peters: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And I know it's difficult, because you're a very experienced person. You've been in this business a long time. But you did, I believe, based on your testimony, indicate that you had received specialized training with regard to --
Irene Peters: I have training in that, but I'm not a specialist in sexual abuse, if that's what you wanted to know. No, I'm not.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Irene Peters: Based on my experience, yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. In your training, did they educate you about the difference between disclosures by boys and disclosures by girls?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And different approaches to take?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And different concerns about the individuals?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did they talk to you about the differences between younger children and teenaged children?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the differences between teenaged boys and teenaged girls?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did they educate you and did you learn that, in fact, it's very unusual for a teenaged boy to admit that he's been molested by an adult?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. No foundation; misstates the facts.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm --
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Irene Peters: That's one of the --
Mr. Sneddon: It's been your experience, has it not, as a person with over 30 years experience, for a teenaged boy to admit that he's been molested by an adult is a very, very difficult thing to do, isn't it?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Vague; no foundation.
Irene Peters: Am I to answer?
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Irene Peters: I can answer that?
The Court: I can have the question read back.
Irene Peters: Yeah, please read that back to me.
The Court: Okay.
The Court Reporter: It's been your experience, has it not, as a person with over 30 years experience, for a teenaged boy to admit that he's been molested by an adult is a very, very difficult thing to do, isn't it?
Irene Peters: Yes. That's one of the things. That's not all of the things. But that's one of them, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And I assume, during the course of your training, that you've become familiar with the term “Child Sexual Assault Accommodation Syndrome”?
Irene Peters: Oh, wow. I won't repeat this again. I am not a sexual abuse therapist. I do deal with sexual abuse cases. I do deal with physical abuse. I deal -- I do deal with emotional abuse, medical neglect. When it comes to the specialist, I would have referred a child who was in sexual -- possible sexual abuse to a sexual abuse therapist. I do know some of the things about sexual abuse, some of them, but I'm not a therapist. At that point I am a social worker evaluating and investigating allegations of abuse.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am. I think all I asked was are you familiar?
Irene Peters: No. I'm not familiar with that, no. I can answer that. No.
Mr. Sneddon: Let me try it under another phrase, then. Are you familiar with the fact -- as a result of your training with the department to investigate allegations of child abuse, are you familiar with the fact that children don't always disclose --
Irene Peters: Oh, yeah. Sure.
Mr. Sneddon: -- on the first visit by somebody?
Irene Peters: Of course. Oh, yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: And sometimes it comes in a serial fashion, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So -- and you're also familiar, from the same training, that it's unlikely that a teenaged boy is going to tell another female adult that he's been molested in the presence of his mother, correct?
Irene Peters: That could be one of the things, yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: That was one of the things you were taught, wasn't it?
Irene Peters: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: So, in fact, the day that you were there talking to Gavin Arvizo and asking him questions about whether he was inappropriately touched by Mr. Jackson, other than his younger brother Star, everybody in the room was a female, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes. Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: Let's talk a little bit about when you first arrived there. You described the situation as very friendly, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And that Janet Arvizo, I think you mentioned, may have been, to you, overly friendly because she hugged you?
Irene Peters: That's my observation.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am. Okay. And when you went to the Arvizo -- or the apartment where you thought the meeting was to take place on the 20th, when you first got there, I believe in response to Mr. Mesereau's questions, you said that there was about -- there was -- she immediately wanted you to watch this video, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And I want to ask you a couple questions about this.
Irene Peters: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: In preparation for your testimony today, did Mr. Mesereau allow you to listen to a tape-recording that was made of the events that occurred when you arrived at the house on the 20th and went for about 20 minutes?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you aware of the fact that your meeting with Janet Arvizo had been surreptitiously tape-recorded?
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Not at that point in time. Are you aware of that now?
Irene Peters: Through the media.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am. Through the media.
Irene Peters: That's the only way I knew.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And you heard your voice?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And it was your voice?
Irene Peters: It was me.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And before you testified here today, did Mr. Mesereau ask you to listen to the tape with your voice on it?
Irene Peters: That's the first time I've ever seen him.
Mr. Sneddon: Did an investigator for Mr. Mesereau ask you to do that?
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Did they ask you to look at the transcript that had been prepared of that particular meeting?
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Sneddon: And so basically what you're telling us is based on your recollection of what happened several years ago, or a year and a half ago?
Irene Peters: Yes. 2003, right?
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And isn't it a fact that the first two and a half minutes of that tape you can hear everybody just making introductions and talking in general before anybody puts anything into the machine?
Irene Peters: I never heard the tape.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Well, I'm asking you your recollection. Does that refresh your recollection with regard to what happened?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; no foundation.
Mr. Sneddon: It does.
Mr. Mesereau: Calls for speculation.
The Court: Overruled. The answer was, “Yes”. Next question.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you went out there on the 20th, you had actually attempted to find Mrs. Arvizo and the children on the 14th, correct?
Irene Peters: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And when you did that, you went to the location that you have told us about with the police officers --
Irene Peters: Right, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: -- correct?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And then you went over to the school?
Irene Peters: No, not the same day.
Mr. Sneddon: No.
Irene Peters: Later on.
Mr. Sneddon: The next day?
Irene Peters: No, it was a Friday.
Mr. Sneddon: It was a Friday.
Irene Peters: So, let's see. Monday was my day off. Probably was Tuesday.
Mr. Sneddon: So how many days in between?
Irene Peters: Four.
Mr. Sneddon: So that would have been around the 18th, then?
Irene Peters: Right.
Mr. Sneddon: So you went to the school, you contacted the principal of the school?
Irene Peters: Excuse me. I talked to a counselor there. Mrs. Heiss.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to the original allegation that had come into your department, you had received, actually, multiple referrals, had you not?
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Sneddon: There weren't several people who had actually complained and asked for an investigation?
Irene Peters: No, I only received the one referral.
Mr. Sneddon: From the principal of the school?
Irene Peters: Am I to say who the caller was?
Mr. Sneddon: Well, I'm asking you --
Irene Peters: Is it okay?
Mr. Sneddon: I'm asking you if it was the principal of the school complaining that they weren't in school.
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you mentioned before in your examination with Mr. Mesereau that records are kept of contacts that come in about allegations; is that correct?
Irene Peters: Yes, they are. There's a referral number on all allegations.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. What is CAHL?
Irene Peters: Child Abuse Hotline.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And do not your records reflect the fact that the director of the school called in an alleged allegation to the hotline on the 14th of February, 2003?
Irene Peters: You're right. But those calls come from the Child Abuse Hotline, as you -- the CAHL.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am.
Irene Peters: Those cases, from there, they go to certain districts and regions that are located in -- depending on the address of the mother or father or whatever. And that's how they are framed out. And once they do that, if they see that it's a case that has high profile, or -- like I say, we do a lot of media cases. We also do law enforcement, judges, lawyers, doctors. I mean, not doctors, but judges and lawyers. We do those cases for confidentiality. So what I'm saying to you is that I only know that until I get the referral, where the actual allegation came from, who was the reporter, and I do think -- I do remember -- recall that it was Tesh, Dr. Tesh.
Mr. Sneddon: Dr. Tesh?
Irene Peters: Dr. Tesh from the school who called and reported that. Based on the information that there -- was received and the airing of that particular tape, an allegation was called in.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you determine, when you went to the school on the 18th, at that point, that one of the problems that had motivated the school to contact the hotline was the fact that the children were not in school?
Irene Peters: Well, after speaking to the counselor at the school, she told me she was in contact with Ms. Arvizo, and that she had arranged for the children to have homework taken. And that's why she happened to be calling that day when I was sitting in her office and that's how I made contact with her. It was just a coincidence that I was there.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. But -- so the answer to the question is no, they were not in a regular school?
Irene Peters: They were at John Burroughs Middle School. They had missed some days out of school after the airing, which was on 2-6, I think, if I can remember. 2-6-03 was the airing of the tape. They had not been to school because of some of the harassment and some of the things the children were saying about them.
Mr. Sneddon: So it's your understanding that the reason they weren't attending school was because of the fallout from the --
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- showing of the video?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Had you seen the video, the Bashir video?
Irene Peters: A little bit of it.
Mr. Sneddon: Prior to the time that you went out to interview Mrs. Arvizo on the 20th --
Irene Peters: No, I hadn't seen it. No.
Mr. Sneddon: You hadn't?
Irene Peters: Huh-uh.
Mr. Sneddon: Had you seen excerpts from it at all?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; relevance.
Mr. Sneddon: It goes to --
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Irene Peters: Yes, uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: Had you seen the picture of Gavin sitting next to the defendant, Michael Jackson?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: With his head on his shoulder?
Irene Peters: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Had you seen the excerpts in which Mr. Jackson admitted that he slept with little boys in his bed?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So you were aware of all that before you went out to interview the Arvizos on the 20th?
Irene Peters: No, I didn't see the interview. This was after.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Then in fairness to you, I think we should clear that up. Before you went to see the Arvizos on the 20th of February --
Irene Peters: Right.
Mr. Sneddon: -- okay? - had you seen any part of the Bashir video?
Irene Peters: No, I didn't.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So you were unaware of what the allegations were? Let me ask it a different way. Did you read any media accounts other than --
Irene Peters: Of course. I saw it all over T.V.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: That's all I'm trying to do is see what you knew when you went out there.
Irene Peters: I live in America. I saw it, yes. I did.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Were you aware of the fact, when you went out there on the 20th of February, that the allegation was that Mr. Jackson had admitted in this program to sleeping with young boys --
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- in his bed?
Irene Peters: Yes, I was. Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: And you were aware of the fact that one of the people who had been portrayed on that video was one of the children of Mrs. Arvizo, Gavin?
Irene Peters: Right.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So you knew that when you went out there?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did. Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you mentioned that you also checked -- you also checked some files and confirmed that there was a domestic violence history in the family, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And you confirmed that, in fact, your department had substantiated those claims, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes, they did.
Mr. Sneddon: And I think you said to us that, to your knowledge, Mrs. Arvizo was aware of the fact, during the meeting on the 20th, that you had the power to take her children away from her immediately, correct?
Irene Peters: Oh, yeah. Having previously dealt with the Department of Children & Family Services, I'm quite sure she knew.
Mr. Sneddon: In response to Mr. Mesereau, you indicated that you thought that she knew that?
Irene Peters: Yes, she knew.
Mr. Sneddon: She knew?
Irene Peters: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: And so part of the information, or part of the focus of your investigation when you went out there on the 20th was -- basically there were two parts to it, correct? One, to see whether the kids were well-kempt and whether she was a good mother.
Irene Peters: Exactly.
Mr. Sneddon: And the second part was neglect, lack of supervision and whether any molestation had occurred.
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: So there were two things?
Irene Peters: Two things.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, with regard to the first aspect of the investigation, that Mrs. Arvizo -- whether she was a good mother or not, all right?
Irene Peters: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: And I just want to try to make it so it's easy for us.
Irene Peters: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to the first part, you determined, after your conversation with Mrs. Arvizo and your personal observations of the kids, that you didn't -- you didn't worry about that; that everything was fine, correct?
Irene Peters: Exactly. The kids were safe. The mother was taking good care of her kids properly, and that's what it's based on.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And you knew that she was a welfare mother?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: She had very few resources, economic resources?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sneddon: And so in your opinion, in finding the allegation unfounded, you determined that she, with the meager resources she had, took good care of her children, correct?
Irene Peters: Of course. I mean, money has nothing to do with how a parent takes care of their child. It's not economics.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Irene Peters: You know.
Mr. Sneddon: So you were impressed by the way that she took care of those kids?
Irene Peters: Yes, she was fine about her children, taking care of them properly. She was not neglecting her children.
Mr. Sneddon: And just the fact that when you saw her in April, that she was very concerned about her children's education, that she had taken them and put them into tutoring to make sure they didn't fall behind, correct?
Irene Peters: Yeah, I think she told me that Major Jackson was paying for it or something.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am.
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And as a matter of fact, they had missed some school?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did tell me that.
Mr. Sneddon: And they were trying to catch up so that they could get caught up in their schooling?
Irene Peters: Uh-huh. That was after the case was closed.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am.
Irene Peters: So that's off the record. What I mean is, it's just a conversation.
Mr. Sneddon: It's on the record.
Irene Peters: This was a conversation that I was having with her. She did tell me that, yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm just saying that nothing that occurred afterwards was inconsistent with your opinion that she did a good job of raising those children?
Irene Peters: Oh, no problem. She did a well job, a good job.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Irene Peters: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you arrived -- I want to talk about what happened on the 20th at the apartment.
Irene Peters: Okay. All right.
Mr. Sneddon: So we can just -- when you arrived there, I think you said that there were two gentlemen, or men inside, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And could you describe those two people to me?
Irene Peters: Big.
Mr. Sneddon: Both of them?
Irene Peters: I don't -- yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Both of them big?
Irene Peters: Yes. I mean --
Mr. Sneddon: Buffed out?
Irene Peters: You know, off -- all of them was big.
Mr. Sneddon: Pardon?
Irene Peters: All I remember, they were big.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember what race they were?
Irene Peters: Oh, God, I can't remember. Maybe one was black and --
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall telling officers that you thought they were African-American?
Irene Peters: Yeah, but I don't think they were. I can't really remember because I wasn't focusing on that. I do remember them being there. I knew they were big, you know. I can't remember.
Mr. Sneddon: And one of them was introduced to you as Michael Jackson's security guard, correct?
Irene Peters: Yeah, I think. Yeah, I think that's what he said.
Mr. Sneddon: And the young lady that was introduced to you, the Azja Pryor young lady, she was introduced as a friend of the family, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes, she was.
Mr. Sneddon: She was the lady with the baby?
Irene Peters: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Irene Peters: Little boy.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, have you ever had a case before where you went out, in your 30 years of experience, to do an investigation into an allegation and you had a security person there for the person that you were investigating?
Irene Peters: You know, I don't know how to answer that question. I mean, I've been to a lot of homes. They might have been security guards. They might have been -- I don't know. To be fair with that particular question, the answer probably would be no, not really knowingly knowing who they were. I mean --
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
Irene Peters: -- that's the best way I can answer that question for you.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you agree with me that it's highly unusual, in your experience, to have a security guard present representing the person who you are personally investigating?
Irene Peters: Knowing the nature of the case and what I deal with, and I do deal with the Sensitive Case Unit, a lot of things are probable, in that sense. If it's a security guard -- I've been to homes and I've had five police officers there.
Mr. Sneddon: No, I'm talking about a person working for the person that you're investigating. This would be a first, wouldn't it?
Irene Peters: Probably so. Probably so. I'll answer yes to that.
Mr. Sneddon: Did it cause you any concern at all that there was a security person there representing the person that you were investigating?
Irene Peters: Did it concern me?
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Objection; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Irene Peters: I wasn't overly concerned.
Mr. Sneddon: But it did set off a little bit of a question mark in your mind?
Irene Peters: I was wondering why.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
Irene Peters: That was all. I'm not starstruck or anything like that, you know. I was wondering why all the hoopla? Why all the people? Why all the -- you know, I come here to investigate her.
Mr. Sneddon: Seemed like an awful lot for just what you were there to do was routine?
Irene Peters: Yeah. Well, like I said, I've been around for a while, so I've seen a lot of things.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, I want to talk a little bit about the video.
Irene Peters: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: The video that you saw that Mrs. Arvizo put into the machine, that video was not the Bashir tape, was it?
Irene Peters: No, it wasn't.
Mr. Sneddon: And it was a video that showed Gavin Arvizo when he had cancer, correct, was recovering from cancer?
Irene Peters: Yeah, I would assume that would -- yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: He looked very frail?
Irene Peters: Well --
Mr. Sneddon: Didn't have very much hair?
Irene Peters: Not much hair, yeah. I think that's the same one where they were riding around on a train, and they were going through Neverland and there's some swans or something.
Mr. Sneddon: And he was a good deal younger than the Gavin that you saw at the apartment that day, correct?
Irene Peters: He was 13 when I -- I think he was 13.
Mr. Sneddon: Uh-huh. He looked younger and smaller?
Irene Peters: He was younger. Maybe, what, 11? 11, 12.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know whether that particular video that you saw that day on the 20th that Mrs. Arvizo showed you had ever been shown publicly anywhere?
Irene Peters: I don't know. Maybe so. I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever see it?
Irene Peters: Do you mean like on television or --
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am.
Irene Peters: Is that what you're saying?
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am.
Irene Peters: I'm not aware of that. I mean, I'm not aware of that.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. All right. Let's talk a little bit about the process. Ordinarily when you interview somebody, it's confidential, correct? Let me go back. Let me just start over again. When you go out to investigate an allegation of neglect --
Irene Peters: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: -- for child abuse - okay? --
Irene Peters: Right.
Mr. Sneddon: -- child sexual abuse particularly in this case --
Irene Peters: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: -- you have certain procedures that you try to follow in the way that you do your work, correct?
Irene Peters: Exactly.
Mr. Sneddon: And one of the things that -- the reasons that your unit was created was because there had been leaks in the past when information came into your office in high-profile cases about the facts and circumstances of an alleged molestation, correct? That's why you have your unit?
Irene Peters: I understand that's why it was created.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Irene Peters: Actual documentation, in actual policy and procedure, I don't know how this unit got created. But I do understand that that was one of the reasons why it was created, because there was too many people handling other cases. And so what they did was centralize it, localize it, rather, and put it in one spot so we knew who -- the social workers who had that particular case.
Mr. Sneddon: And one of the reasons for that was to provide accountability in case anything leaked out, correct?
Irene Peters: Leaked out. Well, all our cases are high confidentiality. All our cases.
Mr. Sneddon: So the goal --
Irene Peters: How that is treated any different -- not that the case is treated any different, but --
Mr. Sneddon: I'm not suggesting that, ma'am.
Irene Peters: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm just trying to find out in your opinion, based on your experience --
Irene Peters: In my opinion --
Mr. Sneddon: -- that one of the things that your unit tries to accomplish is to make sure that the information you obtain remains confidential?
Irene Peters: You're correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And it does not get out to the public?
Irene Peters: You're correct.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry if I was too hard getting there. And so that is one of the reasons why, on the morning of this interview, that your supervisor, Mrs. Walker, requested that the people who were in the room leave, the two -- the security person and the other one, and Mrs. -- Miss Pryor and the baby, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes. But I will tell you this --
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Irene Peters: -- that if a parent decides they want someone else to hear what we're saying, they have that right.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So if she wanted to have an attorney present, she could have?
Irene Peters: She has that right, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And if she had wanted to insist on the fact that Azja Pryor stay, she could have done that?
Irene Peters: Yes, she could have.
Mr. Sneddon: And if she had wanted to insist upon having the big guy stay, she could have done that?
Irene Peters: Yes, she could have. But it was our intentions to try to give us as much confidentiality as we can.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And you told her that, and she went along with it, correct? She asked them to leave?
Irene Peters: Yeah, she did.
Mr. Sneddon: In fact, she even apologized for the fact that they were there, and that it was her fault that she'd invited them, correct?
Irene Peters: I don't remember her apologizing for it. She may have said something to that effect, that, “I'm sorry I did” -- you know, but I can't really remember that.
Mr. Sneddon: But in any case, the reality is, what you're trying to do is create as much confidentiality about these meetings as you can?
Irene Peters: Exactly.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, obviously if anybody tape-recorded any of those conversations, that would be a breach of that confidentiality?
Irene Peters: It's illegal.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. That would be a breach of the confidentiality?
Irene Peters: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sneddon: And you did not know that at the time that you were -- you arrived at the apartment, that you were being tape-recorded, did you?
Irene Peters: No, I did not.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you see a tape-recorder any time while you were there that morning?
Irene Peters: No. I would have said something.
Mr. Sneddon: And wasn't one of the things that Mrs. Arvizo said to you during the course of your conversation before you began the interview was that she was afraid that the report would not be confidential and that like her name would end up on a billboard as a bad mother; isn't that what she said?
Irene Peters: You know, I think she did say something to that effect.
Mr. Sneddon: So she was worried about the confidentiality issue, correct?
Irene Peters: Of course she was. And we reassured her that everything was confidential, you know. We had a pretty good rapport, you know.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you -- when you talked to Mrs. Arvizo, did you -- did you ever take her separately into another room and talk to her?
Irene Peters: I went into a room, yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And talked to her?
Irene Peters: I -- yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And you were sort of explaining to her why you were there?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you did that, the other people were still out in the other room?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did. I did do that.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you at some point see Mrs. Arvizo go into a room with the big guy, one of the big guys who was there, before you commenced your interviews?
Irene Peters: No, I didn't. I don't recall.
Mr. Sneddon: You don't recall?
Irene Peters: No. Huh-uh.
Mr. Sneddon: Is it possible?
Irene Peters: It's possible.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, at some point I think you told a defense investigator that you didn't think that Mrs. Arvizo was out of your presence from the time that you arrived till the time you commenced your interview. Did you not say that?
Irene Peters: No, she was not out of my sight. She was -- we were in a one-bedroom apartment, small apartment.
Mr. Sneddon: So if you saw her walk into a bedroom, you --
Irene Peters: Yeah, if I saw her, she did not walk into a bedroom with -- since we're talking, she did not walk into a bedroom with anyone else.
Mr. Sneddon: And do you recall a time when actually Mrs. Arvizo excused herself and went into the rest room for a while, before the conversation occurred?
Irene Peters: In the beginning?
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am.
Irene Peters: When we first started talking?
Mr. Sneddon: After the video.
Irene Peters: After the video?
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am.
Irene Peters: Perhaps she did.
Mr. Sneddon: Isn't it maybe -- isn't it true that actually after the video was completed, you took her into another room and you talked to her about what you were trying to do, and to ease her -- she was anxious, and you were very nice to her, and you were trying to tell her what it was all about, and you kept saying it was your higher-ups that told you you had to go do this and things like that, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, that's part of my job.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am. And right after that, when you came out, you said people had to leave, correct?
Irene Peters: I think they were gone after that -- before I did that.
Mr. Sneddon: But at some point before they left, Mrs. Arvizo and one of the big guys went into a room separately, correct?
Irene Peters: I could not answer that. I could not be very sure of that, if that happened or not.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, one of the other things that you have a procedure about, that's a general procedure - not in all cases, but a general procedure - is that when you interview families, and particularly children, where you believe there may be an allegation of sexual misconduct, that you attempt to try to do the interview separately, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: In other words, you separate each of the children, and you separate the parent and then you interview each person individually?
Irene Peters: You attempt to.
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah. And that was your plan on this day?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And it didn't work out because Mrs. Arvizo --
Irene Peters: Because she requested that she be present.
Mr. Sneddon: -- insisted that she be present?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And as I understand it, that then the follow-up to that is that you have a procedure that, where that occurs, that you attempt to go out and contact the child either at school or at another location to independently interview them again, with the parent not present; is that correct?
Irene Peters: That's if I have any kind of observation that this may have occurred. What I'm saying, it's -- had they said anything that would warrant me going to another interview, I would have done it.
Mr. Sneddon: Well --
Irene Peters: You attempt to try to do that, yes. Yes, you do. You're correct. But I was -- I didn't get in contact with them about this.
Mr. Sneddon: You didn't attempt to do that?
Irene Peters: I did call a couple times, but, no, I didn't, no. Huh-uh.
Mr. Sneddon: And you told us before that you wouldn't necessarily expect a teenaged boy to reveal an allegation to you on a first meeting, didn't you?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Misstates the evidence; no foundation.
The Court: Asked and answered. Sustained.
Irene Peters: Do you want me to answer it?
Mr. Sneddon: No. I guess I've already asked it. You already answered it. That's fine.
Irene Peters: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Let's talk a little bit about the second part of your interview process, if we can. The second part dealt with the family's relationship with Mr. Jackson, correct?
Irene Peters: Uh-huh. Yes, it does.
Mr. Sneddon: She has to hear you say that.
Irene Peters: I'm sorry. Yes, she did. I mean -- uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: And you had a little script of questions that you asked to make sure that you asked everybody the same question consistently, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: And the first question that you asked was what was the nature of the relationship between whoever you were talking to, let's start with Janet, and Michael Jackson, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And when you asked that question, Mrs. Arvizo said to you, “Michael is like a father to my children”, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you asked that same question to Gavin, which was the very first question you asked in the interview of each of these people, what was his relationship with Michael Jackson, he said, “Michael has been like a father to me”, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Isn't that what your report says?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you asked that very same first question to Star, Star said, “Michael is like a father to me”. He said the same thing, correct, as his brother?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you asked that question to Davellin, the first question you asked her, what was the nature of the relationship, she said, “Michael is like a father to all of us”, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did that not concern you, that each one of them began their description of the relationship with Mr. Jackson exactly the same way that the one before them did?
Irene Peters: No, it didn't.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you were aware, when you went out there, that part of the allegations against -- that you were to investigate was whether or not Gavin was sleeping in the same bed with Michael Jackson, correct?
Irene Peters: Allegations of sleeping in the same bed with Michael Jackson. That's what's on the referral.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am. That's what I said.
Irene Peters: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: That was it, correct?
Irene Peters: Right.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you were talking to Janet Arvizo about the second part of that interview, which was the relationship with Mr. Jackson, she told you that the children were never alone with Mr. Jackson, correct?
Irene Peters: That's what she said.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Yes, ma'am. And she told you that there was always somebody around when they go to Neverland, correct?
Irene Peters: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And actually, she said sometimes they stay in the visitors' quarters, “But mostly I'm in the main house”. Isn't that what she told you?
Irene Peters: She said she was in the main house.
Mr. Sneddon: Didn't she say in your report, “Mostly in the main house”?
Irene Peters: “Mostly in the main house”. I wrote it like she said it.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. That's fine.
Irene Peters: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: But by that statement, did you assume that Mrs. Arvizo was in the main residence occupied by Mr. Jackson?
Irene Peters: Say that again. What are you saying?
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah. When she told you that, what you thought was she was in the same house. Not the same room, but in another part of the house?
Irene Peters: I don't know the setup, so “main house” would mean where the living quarters are. Am I correct? I mean --
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. You said mostly --
Irene Peters: That's what I was thinking. That's what I was thinking, yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: And she also told you that one of the reasons that she felt that nothing could have happened in this case was because she was up wandering around the house late at night?
Irene Peters: She did tell me that, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Didn't it strike you as a little strange that this woman is walking around this house late at night?
Irene Peters: No. Not for her, no. I'm sorry.
Mr. Sneddon: Not for her?
Irene Peters: No. Scratch that. No.
Mr. Sneddon: It's “strike it” in our vernacular.
Irene Peters: Strike that.
The Court: I like “scratch it” better. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. She's not completed her response.
Irene Peters: It just did not. It just didn't.
Mr. Sneddon: And from the conversation with Mrs. Arvizo, did you draw the conclusion that, in your opinion, the boys were never alone with Mr. Jackson in his bedroom?
Irene Peters: That's the picture that was painted to me.
Mr. Sneddon: There was always an adult around?
Irene Peters: That's exactly what she said. She say she was aware of everything that was going on. She has a vigilant eye over her children. She would never put them in harm's way.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And she also told you that the defendant's room had no doors and was always open, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes. She tried to give me a visual description of it.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Irene Peters: And it was as if it was just wide open. It was huge, big bed, and -- and I did the best I could with my visual.
Mr. Sneddon: You envisioned a situation where people could come and go with easy access, and if they wanted to check on what's going on, that was fine, there was no problem getting in or out of the place at all?
Irene Peters: Yes, that's what I envisioned.
Mr. Sneddon: You've never been to Neverland Ranch, right?
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you, in the course of your investigation, before you wrote your final report, attempt to verify what the sleeping arrangements were like at Neverland Valley Ranch?
Irene Peters: That's out of our jurisdiction.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, the issue you were investigating was whether or not there had been some allegations about Mr. Jackson's sleeping in bed with Gavin Arvizo, correct?
Irene Peters: The incident happened in Santa Barbara County. It was out of our jurisdiction. We go to the address that is listed on the referral, which was in Los Angeles. That's when I came to the Department of Children & Family Services in Los Angeles.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, I guess what I'm just asking you is, you created a report based upon statements given to you by the family into allegations about whether anything inappropriate happened to the children, correct?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; unintelligible.
Mr. Sneddon: I'll rephrase it.
Mr. Sneddon: Was the focus of your investigation whether anything inappropriate had happened with those children and Mr. Jackson?
Irene Peters: The focus is on -- is whether the mother was generally neglecting the children by putting them in a situation that would be unsafe.
Mr. Sneddon: And “unsafe” meaning sleeping in the same bed with Mr. Jackson?
Irene Peters: Yes. You're correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Irene Peters: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And whether anything -- and that's why you asked them in the very last question whether anything inappropriate happened, right?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And was it your impression -- well, I've already asked that, so let's put it this way --
Irene Peters: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: -- you were given information from Mrs. Arvizo. Did you attempt to verify the accuracy of the information that she was giving you, whether, in fact, Mr. Jackson's room was wide open and easy-come/easy-go access?
Irene Peters: That's not part of my job.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So you accepted the information, but you don't go out to independently verify it?
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Sneddon: That's not part of your job?
Irene Peters: I'd still be there.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you aware of the fact that Neverland Valley Ranch had some guest cottages?
Irene Peters: She told me about -- is it a media room or something? There's a room, I guess, that they may stay in. I think her daughter told me something about that. There was another arrangement or something. I'm not sure.
Mr. Sneddon: So you didn't do any independent verification of what the sleeping arrange -- whether there were any guest cottages or other locations where this family could have been staying at the time?
Irene Peters: She did tell me she stays sometimes in other quarters. Is that the guest -- is that the guesthouse? Or -- I would assume that it had a guesthouse.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And -- but you didn't independently investigate that?
Irene Peters: No, I did not.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you. Now, when you talked to Gavin, you also asked Gavin whether or not he was ever left alone with Mr. Jackson, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did. I asked him if he ever slept in a bed with Michael Jackson. He told me no. But he had slept in the bed.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, before you asked him about sleeping in the bed, didn't you ask the question whether he was ever alone with Mr. Jackson?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And he told you, “No”?
Irene Peters: Right.
Mr. Sneddon: There was always somebody around?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And he indicated to you that his mother, Janet Arvizo, would go in and out of the room whenever she wanted, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: In other words, she had easy access to go and check on the kids anytime she wanted. That was your impression, correct?
Irene Peters: That was my impression.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am. And that she was always around when the kids were around Mr. Jackson?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you interviewed Star, Star also told you that he was never alone with Mr. Jackson, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes, he did.
Mr. Sneddon: And he told you this incident where they would make s'mores around the fireplace and laugh and have fun, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes, he talked to me about that. He spoke about that.
Mr. Sneddon: And he said his mother is there “when we're in Michael room. We're never left alone”?
Irene Peters: That's exactly what he told me.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever interview anybody at the ranch, any of the employees or any of the house staff, to see whether or not that statement was correct or not?
Irene Peters: No, I did not.
Mr. Sneddon: Then you interviewed Davellin, correct? The last one was the sister.
Irene Peters: The 16-year-old?
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah.
Irene Peters: Yeah, uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: And Davellin told you that she took a friend with her to the ranch, correct?
Irene Peters: She did.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And she said that most of the time that she was with this friend, who would keep her company, and they would stay in the room down the hall in the main house. Isn't that what she told you?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And that her mother always knows what's going on at Neverland, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: That's what she told you?
Irene Peters: Yes, that's what she told me.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you ever ask for the name of the friend?
Irene Peters: Perhaps I did. Like I say, our conversations, our interviews are not taped. So I'm doing it, you know, on --
Mr. Sneddon: On notes?
Irene Peters: On notes. And I don't recall if she gave me the name or not.
Mr. Sneddon: If she would have, you probably would have put that in your report?
Irene Peters: Yes, I would have.
Mr. Sneddon: You didn't see it in your report when you reviewed it?
Irene Peters: No, I didn't. I would have put it in my report.
Mr. Sneddon: So you never -- you didn't ask for the name, so I'm assuming you never contacted this person to see whether she was ever at Neverland, this friend?
Irene Peters: Are you talking about collateral contacts?
Mr. Sneddon: I'm talking about --
Irene Peters: That's what we call it. We call it collateral contacts. Other people.
Mr. Sneddon: For us it's just, did you contact the friend to see whether or not what Davellin was telling you was truthful?
Irene Peters: No, I didn't.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, you -- you told us that you concluded in your report that you made on the 27th, if I have that right, the 27th of February --
Irene Peters: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, if my calculations are correct, the referral came in on the 14th of February?
Irene Peters: That's the day we received it, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: So the 30 days starts ticking on the 14th?
Irene Peters: Yes. I'm not really sure if it came in earlier and we had just gotten a report, because it goes by the age of the children, if it's immediate. It depends on what the allegations are on the sexual abuse. I think it was the same day. It came in on the 14th, which is the day I actually went out, which was a -- an immediate referral, yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: So -- and I think you told us there's a 30-day ticker on this. You have to get it done in 30 days?
Irene Peters: It's a turn-around time, yeah. Uh-huh. Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: And so on the 20th you had the interview, and on the 27th you completed your report?
Irene Peters: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: So you had two more weeks you could have had to complete it if you had wished to do that?
Irene Peters: 29 days -- 28 days in February. I had one day.
Mr. Sneddon: It came out on February 14th, and you wrote your report 13 days later, on the 27th.
Irene Peters: I went out on the 20th.
Mr. Sneddon: And you went out on the 20th.
Irene Peters: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: So you had at least -- I'm not trying to quibble with you, but you had at least two weeks, didn't you, left?
Irene Peters: Seven days.
Mr. Sneddon: All right.
Irene Peters: There's 28 days in February.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am.
Irene Peters: So --
Mr. Sneddon: So you had till --
Irene Peters: Give or take a little. It was -- the 20th was on what day? I'm just looking at the time frame. I work only four days a week. I might have been off that Monday. I probably had really two days to do it. And I could have kept it open if I thought it was -- you can keep cases open, yes. Of course.
Mr. Sneddon: And you got the referral on the 14th. 30 days from then would be approximately, give or take a day or two --
Irene Peters: Oh, do you mean in terms --
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am. It would have been March 12th, because it's a short month.
Irene Peters: I think the deadline -- I'm not really sure. I think the deadline was the -- it was not until March, though. It didn't go until March.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. In your report that you filed, you indicated, in response to Mr. Mesereau's questions, that you used the word “unfounded”, correct?
Irene Peters: That's the words we used, yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, isn't it more correct that your report reflects that the allegations against Mrs. Arvizo for being neglectful as a parent, that you wrote in your report those were unfounded, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And that actually you concluded your report on the part dealing with Mr. Jackson with a simple statement that, “The children denied any inappropriate touching”?
Irene Peters: That's right.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So you didn't use “unfounded” as to the second part of your findings. You just said they denied it?
Irene Peters: I didn't. You're correct. You're correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, just a few more questions and we'll be done. With regard to the cell phone calls - I just wanted to get this clear - the cell phone was your cell phone, correct?
Irene Peters: My personal cell phone, right.
Mr. Sneddon: That she was calling you on your cell phone?
Irene Peters: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, one of the things that Mrs. Arvizo told you at the meeting at Fatburger was that she described her situation while she was at the ranch as horrible, didn't she?
Irene Peters: Excuse --
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall that?
Irene Peters: Horrible?
Mr. Sneddon: Horrible.
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Sneddon: You don't recall that?
Irene Peters: She did not say that.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So you're sure she never said that?
Irene Peters: She did not say that.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And it's pretty clear from your questions (sic) to Mr. Mesereau that the thing that was on Mrs. Arvizo's mind was, one, the impact the Bashir video had had on the children's ability to go to school; correct?
Irene Peters: That seemed to be the main concern.
Mr. Sneddon: Did she tell you the children had been taunted at and yelled at as fags and homosexual and things like that?
Irene Peters: She told me some kids saw him at a gas station and said, “Oh, you're the one that was on the T.V. that slept with Michael Jackson”. She did tell me that.
Mr. Sneddon: And then -- I'm sorry.
Irene Peters: I guess they were having problems going to school, you know.
Mr. Sneddon: And that from your recollection, the thing -- the other thing that she was most concerned about was the fact that her children had fallen behind in school?
Irene Peters: That was one of the things, yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you were interviewing the Arvizos on the 20th of February - okay? --
Irene Peters: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: -- did you believe that they had been staying at Neverland Valley Ranch for an extended period of time?
Irene Peters: On the 20th? When I actually got in contact with them?
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am.
Irene Peters: That was prior to me interviewing them, right.
Mr. Sneddon: Prior -- no, that's the day of the interview, ma'am.
Irene Peters: It was prior -- what are you asking?
Mr. Sneddon: Yes. Was it your information or belief at the time that you were conducting this interview on the 20th that they had actually been staying at the ranch for, let's just say, two weeks at least?
Irene Peters: I don't know the time period, but I was under the impression that she had been backwards and forwards to the ranch.
Mr. Sneddon: Back and forth?
Irene Peters: Back and forth to the ranch. They were in school prior to that, prior to the Bashir document.
Mr. Sneddon: So it was your understanding or belief that prior to the time that the Bashir video was shown that the children were not in school? I'm not trying to put words in your mouth.
Irene Peters: Oh, no, you're not. You're not. The actual last time they were at school, it was prior to the Bashir document.
Mr. Sneddon: That was your understanding?
Irene Peters: Yeah, that was my understanding. As I was speaking to the counselor at the school, yeah. Because she was sending homework to them. Because I asked her, and she said, “I've been in constant contact with Mrs”. -- I was calling her Mrs. Ventura -- “Ms. Arvizo, and we've been sending homework there”.
Mr. Sneddon: And it was your understanding that you thought that they were coming and going from Neverland Ranch --
Irene Peters: Well --
Mr. Sneddon: -- or staying there? I'm --
Irene Peters: No, I don't know. I can't answer that.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, you were asking about situations where the children would have been exposed to the possibility of sleeping in Mr. Jackson's bed, correct?
Irene Peters: I thought it was on visitation. They did tell me they visit there quite often. That's what I thought was going on, the visitations while they were at Neverland.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. So then your understanding was that Mrs. Arvizo had been there on more than one occasion?
Irene Peters: Oh, yeah. My understanding was that they visit quite often.
Mr. Sneddon: And that Mrs. Arvizo had been there quite often?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: That was --
Irene Peters: That's the picture that was painted.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And then lastly, Mrs. Arvizo was pretty emphatic in the conversation at Fatburgers that she did not want to go to Brazil, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes, she said that.
Mr. Sneddon: And that it was -- Mr. Jackson wanted to send her to Brazil, correct?
Irene Peters: Yes. She said she --
Mr. Sneddon: That's what she said?
Irene Peters: Yeah, she said that.
Mr. Sneddon: Nothing further, Your Honor. Thank you.
The Court: I'm thinking of taking a break now. Are you going to redirect?
Mr. Mesereau: I will do redirect, Your Honor.
The Court: We'll take our break now.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Peters, Prosecutor Sneddon asked you questions about whether or not it's difficult for a teenaged young man to report molestation. Do you remember those questions?
Irene Peters: Yes. I remember them. Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: You've had teenaged young men report to you that they've been improperly touched, have you not?
Irene Peters: Yeah. On occasion, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: What if you knew the particular teenaged young man that you were investigating had previously reported his mother for molesting him?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to that. That's an improper question. Assumes facts not in evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: He opened it up, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Would a prior history of allegations of molestation in a family suggest that children in the family have an easier time admitting they've been molested if they really have?
Mr. Sneddon: Same objection, Your Honor. Calls for a conclusion. No foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: When you interviewed Janet Arvizo on February 20th, 2003, I believe you indicated you had looked into prior involvement with your agency and the Arvizo family, correct?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, asked and answered.
Mr. Mesereau: He opened that issue up as well, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection is overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: You can answer the question. You said you had looked into their prior involvement with DCFS, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you aware that Davellin had previously accused her father of molesting her?
Irene Peters: I was not aware of that.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you aware that Gavin had previously accused his mother of molesting him?
Irene Peters: No, I was not.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that because you didn't have that computer system in the mid '90s?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object and ask the Court to admonish counsel. Please. Object. It's hearsay; it's improper; it's been asked and answered.
The Court: The objection as to vague on the last question is sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, the prosecutor asked you hypothetically about the difficulty some teenaged young men have admitting they've been molested, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've indicated, in your experience, certain teenaged young men have admitted to you they've been molested, right?
Irene Peters: Very few.
Mr. Mesereau: What if you learned there were other issues -- excuse me. If a child in a family, theoretically, has made allegations of molestation before, would that suggest that that particular child may have an easier time admitting molestation if it really happens?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as an improper hypothetical; assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you indicated that -- you used words that you're not a specialist. Remember that?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you mean by “specialist”?
Irene Peters: We do have a unit that deals with sexual abuse only.
Mr. Mesereau: But certainly with 30 years of experience, you've --
Irene Peters: Oh, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: -- you've gotten a lot of training --
Irene Peters: A lot of sexual abuse cases.
Mr. Mesereau: -- in cases of sexual abuse?
Irene Peters: Yeah. There are indicators in sexual abuse, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What indicators are you talking about?
Irene Peters: I usually look at the -- how they disclose the information to me, if they're withdrawn, or they may be reluctant to answer any of my questions. The relationship that they had with their -- the interaction they had with their mother. Gavin appeared to be very open, eager to talk. He didn't seem at any point uncomfortable with -- when I asked a question.
Mr. Mesereau: And isn't it correct that Gavin showed no indication of having been sexually abused when you interviewed him?
Irene Peters: My observation at the time, when I interviewed them on that particular day, which was February 20th, he showed no indication of any signs of any sexual molestation.
Mr. Mesereau: And would you say the same about Star, after you interviewed Star?
Irene Peters: Star, also.
Mr. Mesereau: He also showed no indication of having been sexually abused, right?
Irene Peters: No, he did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, the prosecutor asked you questions about the Bashir documentary, but you knew that in the Bashir documentary Mr. Jackson expressly denied any sexual contact with children, right?
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know that?
Irene Peters: Can I answer that?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Irene Peters: Say it again.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you aware that, in the Bashir documentary, Mr. Jackson denied any sexual contact with children?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And the prosecutor asked you questions about Mr. Jackson admitting sleeping with boys, but Mr. Jackson admitted letting children into his bedroom, correct?
Irene Peters: The question that I -- do you want -- posed to the children was, “Have you ever slept in the bed with Michael Jackson?”
Mr. Mesereau: Right. What did they say?
Irene Peters: That's the question that I asked.
Mr. Mesereau: What did they say?
Irene Peters: They said, “No”. Because that was the allegations that was on the referral, so I went verbatim.
Mr. Mesereau: But they did admit sleeping in his bedroom, correct?
Irene Peters: They did admit that they have slept in the bed and in the bedroom.
Mr. Mesereau: In Mr. Jackson's bed in Mr. Jackson's bedroom, right?
Irene Peters: Yes. And they said if he was there, he would sleep on the floor. They told me about an incident where he slept on the floor and a blanket and something.
Mr. Mesereau: The prosecutor asked you about Janet Arvizo being a welfare mother. Do you remember that question?
Irene Peters: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether or not she was a fraudulent welfare mother?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to that question. It's argumentative and it calls for a legal conclusion.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: When you interviewed Janet Arvizo and the children at Major Jay Jackson's home, did you determine whether or not Major Jackson was supporting Janet Arvizo and her children?
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Calls for a conclusion; lack of foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Irene Peters: I never had any contact with Major Jackson. I think my supervisor did have occasion to speak to him, and from what she told me is that he said he was paying for the tutoring.
Mr. Mesereau: But you did believe at the time you interviewed Janet that she and the family were living at least part of the week at Jay Jackson's home, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, that's where I thought they resided.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you investigate whether or not she was putting any welfare money into his bank accounts?
Irene Peters: You know, we don't deal with welfare.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you actually investigate her financial condition at all?
Irene Peters: Based on the information that she gave me, and I did know that she was on welfare, and we do have access to whether or not they are receiving public assistance or not. The actual amount of it is based on the children, how many children you have, and yourself. And that was -- that was -- I think she told me it was $700, and I think that's pretty accurate for a family of four.
Mr. Mesereau: But you don't do any investigation into whether that's being lawfully received, right?
Irene Peters: No. It's two different departments. One is the Department of Public Social Services, which deals with welfare, and Aid to Families With Dependent Children it was called, and now it's called Cal-Works. It's two different departments.
Mr. Mesereau: You didn't investigate her history of any prior litigation, did you?
Irene Peters: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear of a suit against J.C. Penney?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I object. Calls for hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ask her whether or not she was raising money from various celebrities at the time for personal use?
Irene Peters: No, I didn't. But when I looked at the prior allegations of 2001, I think it was, she did make mention of knowing certain people and that she was friends of Michael Jackson, her children went out to Neverland. She did say that in the other referral from the other -- I mean, other social worker who interviewed her, which was almost two years prior to this allegation that we're speaking of right now.
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me. I move to strike as nonresponsive to the question.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Sneddon: Everything beyond “No”.
The Court: The only -- I'll leave in the part about “No, I didn't”. Strike the voluntary statement.
Mr. Mesereau: But didn't Ms. Arvizo tell you at the time that she had been obtaining money or financial benefits from celebrities?
Mr. Sneddon: Object; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you determine how much Major Jackson was making at the time?
Mr. Sneddon: Object as immaterial.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it be correct to say that in terms of your investigation, limiting it to what you do in your job, do you sort of -- let me rephrase that. Did you just take her word for it, “I'm getting welfare”, or did you look further?
Irene Peters: I knew she was getting welfare, because it shows up on our system.
Mr. Mesereau: But you didn't know whether or not she was getting it in a lawful way, correct?
Irene Peters: I don't know.
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Asked and answered and --
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: And assumes facts not in evidence and calls for a legal conclusion.
The Court: I already ruled.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. Apologize.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Mesereau: You said -- the prosecutor asked you questions about these big guys who were at Major Jackson's apartment - okay? - and you indicated that Janet told you she was being hassled by the media; is that right?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever ask her why these security guards were there?
Irene Peters: She said for support.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did she ever complain about them to you?
Irene Peters: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did she ever suggest to you in any way they were a threat to her?
Irene Peters: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did any of her children ever suggest to you that these security guards were a threat to them?
Irene Peters: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, the prosecutor asked you questions about whether or not you've seen security guards before when you've done your interviews, right?
Irene Peters: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said something about you've seen security people at various locations before when you interviewed; is that correct?
Irene Peters: What I meant by that is that when you're going into a home, there may be several people there that are not identified. Being that I do do -- investigate a lot of law enforcement people and things like that, I've had occasions where there were other police officers there, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, your unit deals with high-profile-type investigations, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, they do.
Mr. Mesereau: And your unit obviously would investigate celebrities if referrals were made --
Irene Peters: Yes, we do.
Mr. Mesereau: -- correct? And in your experience, have you -- are you aware that celebrities often have security people?
Irene Peters: Yes. I'm aware of it, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And in your experience, would it be unusual for a celebrity the stature of Michael Jackson to need security?
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, the prosecutor also asked you a question about all these people being there when you did the interview, and I think you said that it's your policy that other people can be present if the person you're interviewing permits it?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Are there any restrictions on that at all?
Irene Peters: We try to interview kids separately, but if the parents refuse, we allow it. We try to interview them separately.
Mr. Mesereau: And I believe you said that Janet was concerned about your interview with she and the children being kept confidential, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, she was.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Janet ever tell you that you were being recorded?
Irene Peters: No, she didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever tell you she knew you were being recorded?
Irene Peters: No, she didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, were the security people -- or, excuse me, let me rephrase that. Were the people that you thought were security people in the room when you did the interview?
Irene Peters: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know where they were?
Irene Peters: Outside.
Mr. Mesereau: To get outside, would they have to go down a stairway?
Irene Peters: They would go out -- yeah, they have to go out of the building.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ask if they would leave the building while you conducted the interview?
Irene Peters: Yes, we did.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever met Major Jay Jackson at any time?
Irene Peters: No, I didn't. No.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever spoken to him at any time?
Irene Peters: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did your investigation involve any check into Major Jay Jackson's background?
Irene Peters: No. They're making an allegation. And when there's an allegation, we go for the perpetrator. And the perpetrator of this particular allegation was the mother, Janet Arvizo.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But in your investigation as to whether or not there is any type of general neglect --
Irene Peters: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: -- would you look into who the mother was staying with or living with?
Irene Peters: That's taken into consideration, yes, if it's -- but he was not on the allegation. I was there to check to see whether or not in fact -- the allegations was against the mother. It was not against Major Jackson. It was against the mother, if she was providing adequate care for the children. So, for instance, hypothetically, if you're in a home and there may be someone that is kind of risky, and I know that, yes, I would talk to that person. Yes, I would. Any other person that's living in the home. But I was under the impression that she was just using his home there because she was hiding from the media and her home being the address in East Los Angeles and that's where I had to do the interview.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the fact that she told you that she was hiding from the media suggest to you she might need security?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the fact that she was hiding from the media suggest that maybe she asked Mr. Jackson would he help her with some security?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object. Calls for speculation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, on April 1st, 2003, again, you saw the Arvizo family at the Fatburger, right?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Janet told you that her kids were being tutored, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: And she pointed to you and showed you where the tutoring office was, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: You saw that on the second level, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was JGI Tutoring, was it not?
Irene Peters: I believe so, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know what it costs to have a child tutored at JGI Tutoring?
Irene Peters: I can speculate. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: It's pretty expensive, isn't it?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object. She answered the question she'd have to speculate. Move to strike the question, and -- and it's also irrelevant.
The Court: The objection is sustained. The answer is stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding -- it's JEI -- I made a mistake -- that JEI Tutoring is a private organization?
Irene Peters: I do believe that is a private organization, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that they provide after-school care?
Irene Peters: At JEI?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Irene Peters: I'm not aware of that, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Janet tell you who was paying for it?
Irene Peters: Major Jackson, I think. Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, I believe you said that Janet told you that she could go into Mr. Jackson's room any time she wanted, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it words to that effect?
Irene Peters: Words to that effect, yeah. She said she was up all around, all the time, and --
Mr. Mesereau: And did she tell you whether or not Mr. Jackson had a lock on his door to his bedroom?
Irene Peters: She said no lock.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: She said it was an open room.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So she said it was open for her to go in and out as she chose?
Irene Peters: That's what she told me, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Irene Peters: That's what I visualized as she was speaking.
Mr. Mesereau: And she told you she would do that any time of night?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, was that the same conversation where you learned that Gavin had slept on Mr. Jackson's bed?
Irene Peters: Um --
Mr. Mesereau: Let me rephrase that. I didn't ask a good question.
Irene Peters: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Janet was sitting there when Gavin told you, “I have slept on Mr. Jackson's bed”, right?
Irene Peters: Yeah. Janet, the mother, yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: That was the same -- and Janet heard Gavin say that to you, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: She never made any objection to that statement?
Irene Peters: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Never made any objection to that happening?
Irene Peters: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But what she said to you is, “But I can go in and out and see what's going on”, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Did Star suggest that he had spent evenings in Mr. Jackson's room?
Irene Peters: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he also deny that anything improper ever happened?
Irene Peters: He denied anything ever happened.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object as asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, the prosecutor asked you if Janet had said things were horrible at Neverland when you bumped into her on April 1st, right?
Irene Peters: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said she never said that, right?
Irene Peters: No, she did not say that.
Mr. Mesereau: When you bumped into Janet and the kids on April 1st, did they ever tell you anything about child molestation by Michael Jackson?
Irene Peters: No, they didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, Davellin told you that she had a girlfriend at Neverland; is that right?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever mention the name Marie Nicole; do you know?
Irene Peters: I can't remember the name.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Simone? Did she ever mention the name Simone to you?
Irene Peters: Maybe.
Mr. Mesereau: Does that sound --
Irene Peters: I'm not really sure. That's catchy, so maybe. Simone, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: You indicated that the counselor at school informed you that homework was being sent to the Arvizos for the children, right?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you take that to mean? Excuse me, let me rephrase. You learned that from a counselor at school, right?
Irene Peters: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: The counselor told you that they hadn't been attending school, but homework is being sent to them; is that correct?
Irene Peters: The mother was constantly in contact with them.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's what the counselor said?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did. Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you discuss that fact with Janet Arvizo when you interviewed her?
Irene Peters: Yes, I asked them about the homework, how was school going. And she said that she was giving homework and sending the work in. So I don't know over what period of time we were talking about, if it was one week, two weeks. But at the particular time when I went to the school, it was fresh. So the 14th was the day we actually got the alle -- the referral. I went to the school, what, about three days -- about the 18th of February. So I'm thinking the time span might have been a week or maybe two weeks that they were getting homework sent to them.
Mr. Mesereau: And did the counselor appear to you to be satisfied that this process of sending homework to the Arvizos was working?
Irene Peters: Yeah, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: And did the counselor inform you that the homework was being done?
Irene Peters: I don't remember that part of it. What I do remember is that she did confirm that they were getting homework, and that's -- as I said earlier, previously, that that's how I was aware of where she was, because I had no idea of her location. Even though I had gone to the address on St. Andrews, I did not have another address for her. It was really coincidental or by luck that I found that out, because I was sitting at the school, because I did go to the school, and that was one of our collateral contacts that we do do is go to the schools, and I was -- found out they were not in the school and she called on the phone.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as a narrative and nonresponsive beyond the first sentence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me go through this a little bit. You mentioned the word “collateral contact”, right? Is that correct?
Irene Peters: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: What is a collateral contact?
Irene Peters: That's when I go and talk to someone else about the situation. And I didn't read the referral to the school or anything. I just asked was she in contact with those kids and did they attend that school, and she told me they did.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, when you're investigating someone for an allegation of general neglect --
Irene Peters: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: -- do you often take the time to go to the child's school?
Irene Peters: A lot of times, yes, we do.
Mr. Mesereau: Why do you do that?
Irene Peters: Depends on what the allegations are. If they're not attending school for any period of time, for sure we go to the school. That's a given.
Mr. Mesereau: If you find that a child is not attending school and not getting their homework done somewhere else, might that be an indication of general neglect?
Irene Peters: Not getting their homework done, no. I mean, we have a lot of those cases of children not doing their homework. But if they're not attending school, it becomes a serious problem, they go to the Student Attendance Review Board, and we are notified of that, Department of Children & Family Services.
Mr. Mesereau: In the case of Janet Arvizo, you've indicated that, based on your investigation, you found that she was raising her kids properly?
Irene Peters: Properly.
Mr. Mesereau: And your findings are limited to the investigation you did, right?
Irene Peters: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: And that investigation included going to the school, right?
Irene Peters: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did what you learned from the counselor at the school affect your findings?
Irene Peters: Yes, it did.
Mr. Mesereau: How so?
Irene Peters: That she was taking care of her kids, making sure they were getting their homework, and that she was not neglecting them in any way in terms of their education.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. No further questions.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: This will be short, I promise you.
Irene Peters: Sure.
Mr. Sneddon: I promise everybody, actually. The first question: Mr. Mesereau asked you about your conversation with Davellin and about the girlfriend, okay?
Irene Peters: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: It's true, is it not, that in your report, what Davellin says was, “Most of the time I take a girlfriend with me to keep me company. We stay in a room down the hall in the main house”, correct? Is that what your report reflects?
Irene Peters: That's what the report says.
Mr. Sneddon: So she would take somebody with her, not that she would meet somebody there?
Irene Peters: No. She told me she would take someone with her.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Irene Peters: For company, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, Mr. Mesereau asked you some questions about your experience with child abuse cases, child sexual abuse cases.
Irene Peters: Right.
Mr. Sneddon: And you indicated a few of the things that you, based on your training, saw as indicators of child abuse, correct?
Irene Peters: A few of the things, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: A few of them.
Irene Peters: Not all of them.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. And that's what I want to just ask you, if some of these are the one of the ones you recognize.
Irene Peters: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, most of the time when you're doing some kind of an interview in this kind of a setting where you go to a home or to a school, the allegations involve somebody who is in a position of trust with the child, correct?
Irene Peters: What did you say?
Mr. Sneddon: Yes. There are two basic situations in which you can have a sexual assault on a child. They could be picked up off the street by a stranger and taken somewhere and molested. That's one way, correct?
Irene Peters: Right.
Mr. Sneddon: And another way is where an allegation comes in where it is somebody who is a family friend, or a stepfather, or a brother, or somebody like that. It's somebody who's in a position of trust with that child, correct?
Irene Peters: Right.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Irene Peters: Right.
Mr. Sneddon: And the indicators for the latter situation, that's what I want to talk about, somebody in a position of trust, okay? Do they tell you when -- in your training, that one of the indicators that you look for for somebody who would take advantage of a child is that the child is from a broken home?
Irene Peters: That's one of the indicators, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did they also tell you that another indicator was that there's no father figure in the family?
Irene Peters: That can be one of the indicators, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And both of those indicators were present in this case, correct?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Irene Peters: No father in the home and you said --
Mr. Sneddon: Broken home?
Irene Peters: Broken home. I mean, we have a lot of those cases. No father in the home, no -- broken home. I mean, that's America.
Mr. Sneddon: Those are some of the indicators you looked for, correct?
Irene Peters: That's one of the indicators, yes. Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Along with some of the other stuff you mentioned?
Irene Peters: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Thank you. No further questions.
Message: FURTHER REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Very briefly, did you determine whether or not Major Jay Jackson was a father figure in this family?
Irene Peters: They seemed to think highly of him. I think they were involved in the Navy Seals. They did a lot of extracurricular activities. And --
Mr. Mesereau: With Major Jay Jackson?
Irene Peters: No, the children did. But I think, if I can recall, one of the children was involved in the Navy Seals.
Mr. Mesereau: And did Ms. Arvizo tell you that Major Jay Jackson was very involved with her children?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did. She spoke very highly of him, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she tell you they were living a good portion of the week at his home?
Irene Peters: Yeah. They spent a lot of time there, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did she tell you that Major Jackson was spending a lot of time with her children?
Irene Peters: Yes. You know what? When I went -- when I went there, I'm going to assume that he was not in the United States or somewhere else, like on duty.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she tell you that she met Major Jay Jackson through a Seals program?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she tell you her children were involved with Major Jay Jackson in that program?
Irene Peters: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you conclude that Major Jackson was a father figure to the Arvizo children?
Irene Peters: Since I didn't meet him, I didn't have a chance to observe, you know, their interactions or really speak to him about their relationship, so I think it would be unfair for me to make that conclusion.
Mr. Mesereau: But certainly, based on what you heard of Janet Arvizo's relationship with Major Jay Jackson --
Irene Peters: Oh, yeah, she spoke very highly of him, perhaps a father figure.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't sound like a broken home?
Irene Peters: Oh, no. Didn't sound like a broken home, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: Nothing further.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down.
Irene Peters: Thank you.
The Court: Call your next witness, please.
Mr. Sanger: We'll call Karen Walker.
The Court: Come forward, please. When you get to the witness stand, remain standing. Face the clerk over here and raise your right hand.
Message: KAREN WALKER Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Karen Walker: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Karen Walker: Karen Walker. K-a-r-e-n. Last name, W-a-l-k-e-r.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Karen Walker: You're welcome.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Good afternoon.
Karen Walker: Good afternoon.
Mr. Sanger: Miss Walker, the first thing I want to ask you to do is try and talk into that microphone that's on your right side. Kind of lean into it. Everybody has the problem of not being able to get close enough to it.
Karen Walker: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: So if you could do that. Thank you. Now, how are you employed?
Karen Walker: I work for Department of Children & Family Services. I supervise children's social workers.
Mr. Sanger: What county do you work for?
Karen Walker: Los Angeles County.
Mr. Sanger: All right. You just saw Miss Peters leave here; is that correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you know her, by any chance?
Karen Walker: Yes. I'm her supervisor.
Mr. Sanger: All right. How long have you worked for the Department of Children & Family Services?
Karen Walker: Almost 13 years.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. What's your educational background?
Karen Walker: I have my bachelor's in English and my master's in counseling psychology.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Do you have any licenses or certificates?
Karen Walker: Certificates from inservice trainings that I've attended and through the department. But I don't have my LCSW or my MFCC.
Mr. Sanger: And those two series of letters that you just rattled off there, those are licenses for people to counsel in private practice; is that right?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: So if you decided to retire some day and you wanted to open a counseling practice, you would have to get a license of that sort; is that correct?
Karen Walker: Right. You'd have to do hours and then get your license.
Mr. Sanger: All right. For the work that you do, you do not need to have that counseling license; is that correct?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: Now, you indicated that you have some inservice certificates. Can you tell us what that is about?
Karen Walker: Parenting certificates. Sexual abuse inservice trainings. The department has several trainings that they give throughout the year, and you can sign up and attend those trainings.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Have you been doing that over the years that you've been there?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And were you employed in the same capacity in February of 2003?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, at some point -- oh, let me ask you this. You said that you're, I believe, a special unit supervisor; is that correct?
Karen Walker: I have the Sensitive Cases Unit and Medical Placement Unit.
Mr. Sanger: And briefly explain to us what the Sensitive Cases Unit is.
Karen Walker: The Sensitive Cases Unit goes out and investigates allegations of child abuse, neglect, exploitation of children whose parents work for Department of Children & Family Services, Los Angeles Police Department patrol officers, sheriff's department patrol officers, and high-profile persons and celebrities.
Mr. Sanger: All right. You mentioned another unit.
Karen Walker: Medical placement.
Mr. Sanger: Medical placement. All right. That has nothing to do with this case; is that correct?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: So we'll not ask about that. In your capacity as a supervisor of the special unit, did you have occasion to become involved in an investigation in February of 2003 involving the Arvizo family?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Can you tell me what your first contact was in that regard?
Karen Walker: Lavern called me on the telephone when the referral came in, and I believe it was Valentine's Day, and she and another social worker were going to the home because they got a referral called in, and they were going to go and investigate. And they weren't able to locate the family. So then the following week, which I believe was February 20th, we had a better idea and a location, because Lavern had spoken to the mother, and we went to the address and got the correct apartment number.
Mr. Sanger: So the first day that any activity occurred in your office that you're aware of was February the 14th?
Karen Walker: Right.
Mr. Sanger: And then February 20th, you say “we went to a location”.
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: That is the first time you actually got physically involved in doing something on the case; is that right?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And why was it that you accompanied the other social workers or -- do we say “social workers”?
Karen Walker: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sanger: Yes. Okay. Why was it that you accompanied the other social workers to go on this particular visit?
Karen Walker: My assistant regional administrator, Brenda Blackburn, thought that it would be a good idea for me to accompany Lavern and Jackie.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And what are the last names of Lavern and Jackie?
Karen Walker: Lavern's last name is Peters, and Jacqueline's last name is Bowen.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So Miss Peters and Miss Bowen. We're really supposed to use last names in court, so --
Karen Walker: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: It's not absolutely insisted upon, I suppose, but we try to do that. All right. So you went out there with Miss Peters and Miss Bowen, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And where did you go?
Karen Walker: To the location where the Arvizo family was living.
Mr. Sanger: Is that St. Andrews Place?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: What part of town is that in?
Karen Walker: Mid-Wilshire area.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And did you have any other people with you, law enforcement officers or other staff people?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So the three of you traveled out there. Did you meet or did you go in one car?
Karen Walker: We all went in one car.
Mr. Sanger: So you arrived there at the same time, I would assume?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. What did you observe when you went into the residence?
Karen Walker: Do you mean inside, upstairs?
Mr. Sanger: What's the first thing that happened? Somebody answered the door, I suppose. Tell us about that.
Karen Walker: The mother answered the door, and from -- Peters, Bowen and myself, we walked in. We introduced ourselves. And she introduced us to the children, and everybody gave us a hug, and then we met the other people that were also there in the apartment.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, were you the person designated to do the interview?
Karen Walker: No, Lavern was going to do the interview.
Mr. Sanger: So that's Miss Peters?
Karen Walker: Yes, I'm sorry, Miss Peters.
Mr. Sanger: That's all right. So Miss Peters, it was her case, as it were?
Karen Walker: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sanger: You have to -- I'm sorry. We'll get all these rules straight. You have to say “yes” or “no” --
Karen Walker: Oh, yes.
Mr. Sanger: -- for the court reporter. It's really hard to get the others down.
Karen Walker: She was the assigned social worker to --
Mr. Sanger: So what happens, if you go along as a supervisor, you're not there to usurp the assigned social worker's duties; is that correct?
Karen Walker: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you mentioned that you had been asked by Brenda Blackburn to go with Miss Peters on this interview. Is that a usual occurrence, that you go out in the field with various people every day, or is this more unusual?
Karen Walker: I'm usually not in the field. I'm usually in the office. Every now and then I do go out on a referral with a worker if it's getting late or it's before Daylight Savings Time and they have to go to Lancaster or Palmdale. And depending on what kind of referral it is, sometimes I will go out with them.
Mr. Sanger: So sometimes you'll just go as backup, as it were?
Karen Walker: Right.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, prior to your becoming a supervisor, did you go out in the field and do interviews yourself?
Karen Walker: All the time.
Mr. Sanger: How many years did you do interviews on a regular basis?
Karen Walker: Seven.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Can you estimate the number of interviews of this sort that you did; in other words, initial interviews to go out and assess the situation?
Karen Walker: At least two or three a week.
Mr. Sanger: Two or three a week for seven years?
Karen Walker: (Nods head up and down.)
Mr. Sanger: All right. And I know you were saying “yes”, I think, by shaking your head.
Karen Walker: Yes. I'm sorry.
Mr. Sanger: That's all right. You'll get the rules all straight just as we finish.
Karen Walker: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Happens to everybody. Don't worry about it. All right. Now, you said you went to the door and you mentioned that the Arvizos gave everybody a hug?
Karen Walker: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sanger: In your experience, was that unusual to go investigate a situation on a family and have everybody come up and give you a hug?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: What was their attitude towards you and your co-workers, Miss Peters and Miss Bowen?
Karen Walker: Very engaging. Very nice. Very warm, very friendly.
Mr. Sanger: After the hugs and the greeting was accomplished with the Arvizos, I think you said you noticed there were some other people in the room?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall who they were?
Karen Walker: I believe one of them, they told us, worked for Mr. Jackson. The other one was a young lady, and I believe her name was Azja, and her son.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Do you know if Azja and her son had any relationship to anybody else in particular?
Karen Walker: Azja's son's father is Chris Tucker.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And was Azja -- what was her demeanor during the time she was there?
Karen Walker: She was very nice and very friendly.
Mr. Sanger: And she was friendly to you; is that correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Was she also friendly to the Arvizos?
Karen Walker: Yes, they seemed very close.
Mr. Sanger: The Arvizos seemed to be close to her; in other words --
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: -- both ways.
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, you mentioned another person being there. I don't know if you said male. I think you said male; is that correct?
Karen Walker: Male.
Mr. Sanger: Can you describe the male who was there?
Karen Walker: Maybe five-nine, five-ten, kind of a medium build, and he was Caucasian.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And what was his demeanor?
Karen Walker: Really kind of nondescript. I mean, we really didn't have much interaction with him.
Mr. Sanger: Was he unpleasant?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So you didn't have enough interaction to really gauge --
Karen Walker: Formulate an opinion, no.
Mr. Sanger: Formulate an opinion, there you go. Was there anybody else in the room that you can recall?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. After you made these observations, you got the hugs, you made the observations of these people, what happened next, to your recollection?
Karen Walker: We all sat on the couch, and Mrs. Ventura proceeded to put in a videotape.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, you called her Mrs. Ventura. The name that she was going by at that time was Janet Ventura?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you understand that she was also Janet Arvizo?
Karen Walker: Well, I knew the children's last name was Arvizo, but on the referral, it said “Janet Ventura”.
Mr. Sanger: That's fine. So you knew that you were dealing with the Arvizo children?
Karen Walker: And their mother.
Mr. Sanger: And their mother?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And Janet Ventura was their mother, right?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: What did you understand about the location of your meeting? Was it their house, somebody else's house?
Karen Walker: It was someone else's house that they were staying in. Apartment.
Mr. Sanger: Do you know whose house it was?
Karen Walker: Yes. His name is Major Jackson.
Mr. Sanger: And who told you that Major Jackson lived there?
Karen Walker: Mrs. Ventura.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did she refer to him as Major Jackson?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you understand what he was a major in?
Karen Walker: The military.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Karen Walker: But I'm not sure.
Mr. Sanger: Not sure which branch?
Karen Walker: Right.
Mr. Sanger: But you understood that that was a rank and he was --
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: She was telling you he's a major in the military?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Some branch of the military?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. What was your understanding about where Mr. Jackson, or Major Jackson, was at the time you were doing the interview?
Karen Walker: Out of town.
Mr. Sanger: Was he -- did you have any understanding as to whether or not he was out of town for an extended period of time, or that day, or for an hour?
Karen Walker: I think maybe on the base.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So he was at work?
Karen Walker: Right.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, you said the next thing that happened was they put a tape into a machine, or Janet Ventura put a tape into a machine; is that correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you remember if it was a tape or a DVD or --
Karen Walker: No. I think it was a cassette, but I'm not sure.
Mr. Sanger: Something that you could put in a television and it will play?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And what did she tell you about that, if anything?
Karen Walker: I believe she said that this was a tape that Mr. Jackson had given to her son.
Mr. Sanger: And did you feel -- well, let me withdraw that. Was this an unusual way to start your interview process?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And did you object, or did you sit back and watch it?
Karen Walker: No, we sat down and we watched the tape.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And do you recall what the tape was about?
Karen Walker: It was of Gavin Arvizo and Mr. Jackson, I believe at his home, outside by a lake, watching swans swimming, climbing a tree.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And was there music to this video?
Karen Walker: I can't remember.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did it appear to be a professional production of some sort?
Karen Walker: Um --
Mr. Sanger: In other words, somebody just --
Karen Walker: Somebody taping?
Mr. Sanger: Somebody holding a video camera, if you could tell?
Karen Walker: I really couldn't tell.
Mr. Sanger: All right. When the tape was over -- was there any talking during the tape? Any discussion in the room while the tape was playing?
Karen Walker: No, I don't believe so.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So the tape was over. And what happened after the tape was over?
Karen Walker: I told Azja and the other gentleman there that, for confidentiality reasons, they were going to have to leave the apartment, because we needed to discuss some things with Mrs. Ventura.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Did Janet Arvizo object to that?
Karen Walker: She said that Azja was like family, and, you know, she could hear anything. And she said that the other gentleman that was there, you know, was welcome to stay as well. And so I kind of reiterated to her that, for purposes of confidentiality, that they really needed to leave before we discussed anything pertaining to the case.
Mr. Sanger: Now, as far as your policy in your office is concerned, was it necessary to make them leave? In other words, if -- if Miss Arvizo said, “I absolutely insist that they stay or I won't talk to you”, would you have gone ahead and talked to her in the presence of other people?
Karen Walker: Probably we would have, yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. But your goal is to clear the room, basically, so you can have a one-on-one conversation with the various people you're supposed to talk to; is that correct?
Karen Walker: Exactly.
Mr. Sanger: And when we say “one-on-one”, ideally you would talk to each family member independently, too; is that correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you make an effort to do that?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And what happened when an effort was made to talk to family members one-on-one?
Karen Walker: Mrs. Arvizo wanted us all in the same room together.
Mr. Sanger: And did she insist on that?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, as far as the other people leaving, did they, in fact, leave?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And they left without incident, I take it?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, during the -- during the time that these people were leaving, that being Miss Pryor and her son and the other gentleman you described, do you recall if Miss Peters did anything?
Karen Walker: While they were leaving?
Mr. Sanger: Yeah. Did she take Miss Ventura into another room?
Karen Walker: I believe she took her into the bedroom for a moment.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And while she took her into the bedroom, did you make an effort, or you or the other worker, Miss Bowen, make an effort to talk to any of the children?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. What happened after that? Miss Peters goes into the bedroom with Janet Ventura. You're out there with the children; is that right?
Karen Walker: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Karen Walker: The door was open. She came back out, and we all proceeded to sit around the table.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, what was the attitude of the children during this interview process? Were they cooperative or --
Karen Walker: Very.
Mr. Sanger: -- uncooperative?
Karen Walker: Very cooperative.
Mr. Sanger: Did they appear to be reluctant to talk?
Karen Walker: No, not at all.
Mr. Sanger: Did they appear to be hiding anything?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: And what was Janet Ventura's attitude during this process?
Karen Walker: She was very compliant and very cooperative.
Mr. Sanger: All right. By the way, the male that you referred to, do you recall any discussion about what that person's role was?
Karen Walker: I believe that she said because of all the media attention and after the airing of the Martin Bashir videotape, that he was there, I guess, for protection for them from media, and also, I guess, driving them back and forth to Mr. Jackson's residence.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And did that individual appear -- I asked you about his attitude or some word to that effect, his demeanor, but did he appear to be a menacing type of person, or how would you describe him?
Karen Walker: No. Not somebody that I would be afraid of, no.
Mr. Sanger: Now, when the interview commenced with everybody there, do you recall what Janet Arvizo said about Michael Jackson, if anything?
Karen Walker: That he was like a father to her children, and that he was a wonderful man; that you can't believe -- she couldn't believe that after showing the tape, that people would come to, you know, conclusions and make allegations.
Mr. Sanger: Now, she's saying these things in the presence of the other family members, the three children, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: What did the three children say about Michael Jackson, the best of your recollection?
Karen Walker: That he was like a father to them; they were very close to him; that he could be a disciplinarian, like if they got out of hand; and they felt very close to him.
Mr. Sanger: Did the children just parrot the same words, or did they have -- tell different stories, or can you describe how they interacted?
Karen Walker: I believe that -- well, no, I mean, they all said the same thing in terms of him being like a father to them. But then, you know, Gavin Arvizo said that, you know, he felt that he had gotten better because of him. Star Arvizo said that everybody thinks that Michael Jackson has a quiet voice, but he can get loud at times. And I don't really remember anything else that Davellin Arvizo had to say, other than he was really nice, and she enjoyed spending time at his home.
Mr. Sanger: Do you remember if Davellin said anything to you about Mr. Jackson's interaction with Gavin while Gavin was sick?
Karen Walker: I don't remember.
Mr. Sanger: Do you remember if any of them talked to you about Mr. Jackson helping Gavin while he was sick?
Karen Walker: Being somebody that they felt had helped Gavin with his illness, because it was Gavin's wish to meet Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Sanger: Do you remember which of the three children said that, or did they all say it, or two of the three?
Karen Walker: No, I don't remember.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, one of the advantages of being a supervisor is that you don't usually have to write reports yourself, is that correct, in these situations?
Karen Walker: Right.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I said that in a somewhat humorous fashion. But who was designated to write the report in this case?
Karen Walker: Lavern Peters.
Mr. Sanger: So Miss Peters is going to write the report. You're there to observe, assist, back up, do whatever is necessary; is that right?
Karen Walker: Right.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall any of the children talking about their biological father?
Karen Walker: No. But I believe Mrs. Ventura said that they were separated, and that she had a restraining order against her husband.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall anything else that she said about her ex-husband?
Karen Walker: No, I don't believe so.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, about how long did this interview last?
Karen Walker: Probably a little over an hour.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So you're remembering, the best you can, the parts of it you can recall; is that correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: You're not purporting to be able to tell us everything that was said by everybody there, are you?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Do you remember talking to Janet or Janet talking to you about Gavin's experiences at school since a certain television show was aired?
Karen Walker: He was not going to school. She had gone to school to pick a book up for he and Star.
Mr. Sanger: Did she explain -- you're familiar with the Bashir video or television show; is that right?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Vague as to time. Object.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Well, as of right now, you know what I'm talking about if I say the Bashir television show about Michael Jackson?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. When did you first become aware of that show?
Karen Walker: When it was on television.
Mr. Sanger: Did you see it when it actually aired on T.V.?
Karen Walker: Part of it.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And then was there a lot of news coverage and -- both in print and on television about that show?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you see any of that at the time?
Karen Walker: Not really.
Mr. Sanger: You were just aware of it in general? So by the --
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: By the time you had this interview, had you actually seen the entire Bashir television show?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: Had you seen the portions of it that pertained to Gavin Arvizo and Mr. Jackson?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, did Miss Arvizo talk about the affect that this television show had on Gavin's ability to go to school?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: What did she tell you about that?
Karen Walker: That he was being teased at school and -- and that's pretty much it.
Mr. Sanger: And did she -- did she tell you that -- did she tell you whether or not she had signed a release for Gavin to appear in the Bashir television show?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did she talk about that at all?
Karen Walker: I believe she said that she wasn't aware that it was going to be shown on television.
Mr. Sanger: And what was your understanding --
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me, Your Honor, I'm going to object to the question as to what point in time are we talking about now? Vague as to time.
The Court: Overruled. Next question.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: At that time, when she's -- we're talking about the interview on the 20th.
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Just so I'm not confused. Okay. And during the interview on the 20th, did she -- was Janet concerned about not receiving compensation from that Bashir program?
Karen Walker: Not that I know of.
Mr. Sanger: Did she discuss that directly with you?
Karen Walker: Compensation for the --
Mr. Sanger: Yes.
Karen Walker: -- video?
Mr. Sanger: Yes.
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did she say at any time -- say anything to you at any time that suggested during that interview on the 20th that Mr. Jackson had done anything wrong with regard to that video?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: Was she -- she seemed to be irritated about the video for some reason; is that safe to say?
Mr. Sneddon: Calls for a conclusion, Your Honor. Object.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Karen Walker: Would you repeat the question? I'm sorry.
Mr. Sanger: Let me ask a different question, even though the Judge said it was okay. Let me clarify it. She had expressed some concern to you about the video and the affect it had on Gavin and the family, right?
Karen Walker: The media attention.
Mr. Sanger: All right. There you go. And did she ask you for advice as to what she could do about the media attention?
Karen Walker: I believe she was speaking to Miss Peters about that she didn't sign a release, and, you know -- I don't know if this actually was on the 20th or if this was a phone call.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So you're saying this, which is intriguing, but can you remember her saying any more on the 20th, before we get to a phone call?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: Do you remember whether or not on the 20th you suggested that she see a lawyer about problems she was describing?
Karen Walker: No. I think that probably was in a phone call. And we weren't able to give legal advice. And if she wanted legal advice, then she should probably seek the aid of an attorney.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Then let's go to the phone call here in just a minute. Before we do, do you recall any other discussion that stands out in your mind during the course of this hour-long interview with this family?
Karen Walker: In terms of --
Mr. Sanger: Well, first -- I can ask some categories. First of all, did anybody say anything negative about Michael Jackson during that interview?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did anybody accuse Mr. Jackson of doing anything unlawful, illegal or improper to anybody in the Arvizo family?
Karen Walker: No. And when we went to do the investigation, the referral was in the mother's name, Mrs. Ventura's name, which was for general neglect. And then the allegations against Mr. Jackson, if anybody would have said anything happened or was inappropriate, then immediately our conversation is terminated and we call the police, because it becomes a criminal matter.
Mr. Sanger: You would refer it to the police?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, when you do these investigations, you're not, you know, putting your hands over your ears to not hear evidence of a crime, right? In other words, if you're doing an investigation and somebody said there was a child molest that occurred and the person who did it was a third party, you want to hear that. I mean, you want to make sure you get that information, correct?
Karen Walker: Absolutely.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And then you refer it to the police?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And you heard nothing whatsoever that suggested that there was a child molest that had occurred?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: And part of the neglect allegations were to the effect that Janet Arvizo was allowing her children to be put in a situation where they were subject to inappropriate contact; is that right?
Karen Walker: Yes. And failure to protect, yes.
Mr. Sanger: So while your interview was focusing on Janet Arvizo, you certainly had in mind that if there was anything that came up that showed that Mr. Jackson had done something inappropriate or illegal, you would want to know about that, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And by the end of the conversation, neither you nor the other workers under your supervision had received any such information; is that correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, you talked about telephone calls. Did you talk to Janet Arvizo, Janet Ventura, did you talk to her at any time prior to the meeting on the 20th of February?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: So the first time you ever had any contact with her, she hugged you?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. After that interview was over, I take it you all said goodbye and you left and went back to your office, right?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: After that was over, did you have any further contact in any fashion with Janet Arvizo?
Karen Walker: Yes, because I -- we have a language form that you have to sign for our department, which means that the investigation took place in English for Mrs. Ventura, and that she understood the referral and everything that was read to her, and everything that was discussed with her was in English. And I took it back to her to have her sign that form.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, you felt that she spoke perfect English or totally adequate English; is that correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: You were just being extra careful to make sure you had the file documented with the proper form; is that right?
Karen Walker: The language form.
Mr. Sanger: The language form.
Karen Walker: Yes. They have to sign that.
Mr. Sanger: And a person would have to sign it if you had reason to believe that English was not their first language; is that right?
Karen Walker: Yes. We also -- the reverse side of it is Spanish.
Mr. Sanger: Did you have any reason to believe that English was not Miss Arvizo's first language?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: You thought it might be -- might or might not have been her first language, but you should go make sure the form is signed; is that right?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: So did you -- did you go back and have her sign it?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And when did that occur?
Karen Walker: I'm not sure of the date, if it was the same day that I went to the home or the next day.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Within a day anyway?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And did you actually -- did you go to the same location, St. Andrews Place?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And did you talk to Miss Arvizo?
Karen Walker: Yes. She came downstairs to sign the language form.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And did she sign the language form?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did she indicate in any way that she was under duress or there was any problem?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: Can you recall the conversation that you had at that time?
Karen Walker: She wanted to know was there anything that we, meaning the department, I guess between Lavern -- I'm sorry, Miss Peters, Miss Bowen and myself, if there was anything we could do in terms of possibly talking to Mr. Jackson's people about getting the boys home-schooled or to have a private tutor or put in a private school.
Mr. Sanger: So did she indicate why she couldn't do that herself?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did she say anything about not having the money to do it or anything of that sort?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And when she was talking to you about this, was it your understanding she was saying she wanted Mr. Jackson to pay for it?
Karen Walker: Yes, because she wanted to know if we could talk to someone related to him --
Mr. Sanger: Go ahead, I'm sorry.
Karen Walker: Right. Someone related to him in terms of possibly getting those things done for the kids because of the media attention. She didn't feel that the boys were going to be able to go back to their middle school.
Mr. Sanger: And she felt that Mr. Jackson should be providing the tutoring for her children?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And did you tell her, “Sure. I'll be happy to call Mr. Jackson up and ask him”?
Karen Walker: No. I told her that, you know, that was out of my scope of our investigation for the department and I wasn't able to do something like that.
Mr. Sanger: Did she appear to be angry with Mr. Jackson?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did you give her any -- when you said out of your scope, did you give her any recommendations as to who she might go to?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did you tell her at that time she could go see a lawyer?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer. You may answer.
Karen Walker: Oh. No. I believe that in terms of the lawyer, it was because she said that she didn't sign a waiver for the Martin Bashir television show. That's where the attorney part of it came in. And that's when, you know --
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did you have that discussion with her in person at the time of the waiver?
Karen Walker: No, at the time of the -- do you mean at the time of the language form?
Mr. Sanger: Yeah, I'm sorry. That's what I meant to say.
Karen Walker: No. This was about the kids getting either home schooling, a private tutor, or private school.
Mr. Sanger: Now, was there anybody there with her when she was asking you if you could contact somebody on behalf of Mr. Jackson?
Karen Walker: Somebody that worked for Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Sanger: Was it the same person you saw the day before or earlier that day, depending on when this was?
Karen Walker: I can't --
Mr. Sanger: Was it the same gentleman you described, or somebody else?
Karen Walker: I think it was somebody else.
Mr. Sanger: And where was she when she was talking to you? You said she came out of the apartment.
Karen Walker: Standing outside of my car.
Mr. Sanger: Did you stay in your car or you got --
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: -- out of your car. What was her demeanor while she was talking to you?
Karen Walker: She was fine. She just really wanted to know about getting the kids into another school or another situation. Because, you know, she didn't feel they could go back to their school.
Mr. Sanger: The situation. Did she also tell you that she wanted to have a different apartment or a different place to live?
Karen Walker: I don't believe she could stay where she was staying before. And I don't know how long she had been staying at Mr. Jackson's residence, but the school had -- where Gavin and Star went to school had Mr. -- Major Jackson's address as the school that -- as the address that the children lived at.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, excuse me, I'm going to object as nonresponsive to the question and move to strike.
The Court: Sustained. I'll strike it.
Mr. Sanger: Did -- Janet Arvizo, when she was there, came up to your car to talk to you, did she tell you anything about having -- or ask you anything about having Mr. Jackson or his representatives take care of moving her to another location? Did she say anything about that?
Karen Walker: Not that I can recall.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, was the apartment that you saw, Major Jackson's apartment, was that really an adequate apartment for a man, a woman and three children to live?
Mr. Sneddon: Well, I'm going to object to that question, Your Honor. It's her conclusion. It's irrelevant.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer. Do you want the question read back?
Karen Walker: Yes, please.
The Court Reporter: All right. Now, was the apartment that you saw, Major Jackson's apartment, was that really an adequate apartment for a man, a woman and three children to live?
Karen Walker: When you say “adequate” -- because there are all types of living situations, especially in the nature of our business. So families live in one-room apartments, children sleep in a living room, children sleep in the bedroom, the parents sleep out on the couches. So I don't really feel, to say adequate, I mean --
Mr. Sanger: All right. So “adequate” is not a good word is what you're telling me. That's fine. Let me change the question. Did you have an understanding from Janet Arvizo that she wanted to have a different place to live other than all of them living in Mr. -- Major Jackson's apartment?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: She never really discussed that with you?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Object. The answer was, “No”. The next question would be leading and suggestive.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I'll withdraw it, then.
The Court: The answer to that one was “No”, too.
Mr. Sanger: I won't withdraw it if the answer is in. I'll submit it, Your Honor.
The Court: Next question.
Mr. Sanger: All right. At any time did Janet Ventura tell you during this visit at your car that she was being held against her will?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: And I take it your prior contact with her on the 20th, the meeting all three of you had, she didn't indicate in any way she was being held against her will; is that right?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: I started to ask you about the other person that was there, and you said you thought there was another gentleman who was there. Did he come up to the window of the car with Miss Arvizo?
Karen Walker: He came up afterwards and she introduced us, and I don't remember his name.
Mr. Sanger: So while she was talking to you initially, he stayed back and let you talk?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And at some point she asked him to come up so she could introduce --
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did she tell you this is somebody associated with Mr. Jackson?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And what was his demeanor as he was introduced to you?
Karen Walker: Fine.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Pleasant?
Karen Walker: Pleasant.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did you notice any anxiety or any -- let me strike the word “anxiety”. Did you notice any tension between Miss Arvizo and the person who she said worked for Mr. Jackson?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: Now, you indicated that you got some telephone calls, or at least a telephone call. Did you receive more than one telephone call from Janet Arvizo?
Karen Walker: Yes. After we had closed the referral, maybe I had a couple of them from her.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Do you recall what she talked about during those telephone calls?
Karen Walker: The same thing, in terms of getting Gavin and Star tutored, home-schooled, or private-schooled.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Do you remember talking to Major Jay Jackson at some point by telephone?
Karen Walker: Yes, he was the last person that I spoke to pertaining to the case.
Mr. Sanger: And what did he call to ask you about?
Karen Walker: About schooling for the kids as well. And I told him that I wasn't able to get involved with that, or suggest that the kids be home-schooled, private-schooled, or tutored.
Mr. Sanger: So between Janet Ventura and Major Jay Jackson, did they appear to be trying to get you to use your office to get Mr. Jackson to come up with some money for their benefit?
Karen Walker: Well, I think it was just more in terms of them wanting to have the kids not go back to their same school, and was there something that we could do about -- and talk to somebody to see about them getting into a private school, home-schooled, or tutored.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, when you're at the car and the fella came up, he's summoned up by Miss Ventura to meet you, did you talk to him and say, “Well, it's nice to meet you. You work for Mr. Jackson, Michael Jackson. Could you do something to help these people out and get them some tutoring”, and that sort of thing? Did you do that at all?
Karen Walker: No. I believe that my conversation with him was very limited in terms of, “Hello. Nice to meet you”, and I think that was pretty much it.
Mr. Sanger: All right. At the time -- at some point, did you receive a telephone call from the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department, or did somebody on your staff receive a call?
Karen Walker: I called the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department when we got the referral.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I'm actually -- let me clarify the question, because I'm asking about a call that came in after the interview took place. Do you recall a call coming to your department after the interview took place from somebody in the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department?
Karen Walker: Okay. You're not talking about prior to us going out.
Mr. Sanger: No, after you went out.
Karen Walker: After.
Mr. Sanger: After.
Karen Walker: After we had gone out, my assistant regional administrator, Brenda Blackburn, received a telephone call from the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department asking that we --
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me. I'm going to object to anything that is hearsay. Looks like that's where she's going.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: So the answer, then, stops right there; is that correct?
The Court: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. That's fine.
Mr. Sanger: Without telling us what you heard from Miss Blackburn as to what the other person said, if anything, was the request relayed to you? Did Miss Blackburn --
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Without telling me what it was, did Miss Blackburn tell you what the person said?
Karen Walker: Yes, and it was documented in our notes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And was that something you had ever heard of before?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, if -- have you been contacted by police in an investigation where there's a concurrent investigation?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And in the course of your experience, have police agreed or asked to come with you on investigations?
Karen Walker: We share information with them pertaining to our investigation, and they share information with us pertaining to their investigation.
Mr. Sanger: And in your experience as a supervisor in that office, have you ever heard of the police or sheriff telling you not to interview a family that was a subject of an investigation?
Karen Walker: No. Because I had called to the sheriff --
Mr. Sanger: Before we get --
Karen Walker: I'm sorry.
Mr. Sanger: We have to just --
Karen Walker: I'm sorry.
Mr. Sanger: -- keep it -- that's okay. I think we have to keep it question and answer so we know we're going to follow the ruling here. So you talked to Janet Arvizo, then, in person on the 20th, right?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: In person again either the 20th or the 21st, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then you talked to her by telephone at least two times thereafter --
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: -- is that correct? And you also talked to Major Jay Jackson sometime thereafter?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall the last -- the date of the last phone call that you received?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: Roughly how long was it after February 20th?
Karen Walker: Maybe a month, six weeks.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, during that entire period of time, did Janet Ventura Arvizo ever tell you that she was being held against her will?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did she ever tell you that any member of her family had been treated in an inappropriate or illegal fashion by Mr. Jackson or anybody associated with him?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: And when Mr. -- Major Jay Jackson talked to you, did he indicate to you in any way that anything illegal or inappropriate had happened with regard to the Arvizo family?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you. No further questions. You know, I do, actually. And I apologize. Let me just do this:
Mr. Sanger: Did you -- did you have occasion -- are those the only times that you saw the Arvizos, or was there another occasion?
Karen Walker: There was another occasion.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Was that at Fatburger?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you weren't having a Fatburger when you went there. You were having a turkey burger; is that right? That sounds better. Can you just tell us about the encounter that you had at Fatburger?
Karen Walker: Miss Peters, Miss Bowen and myself went to lunch together. And -- maybe towards the end of March or the beginning of April, and we were going to Fatburgers. And we ran into Miss Arvizo, Gavin and Star.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And, now, was this before the telephone calls stopped, or was it in the middle of that period, or what would you say?
Karen Walker: After the telephone calls.
Mr. Sanger: So after the telephone -- this is a chance encounter that occurred after you had already had the telephone calls; is that right?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And at that time, what did Janet Arvizo tell you, if anything, about what was happening in her life?
Karen Walker: She said that Mr. Jackson wanted them to go to Brazil; that they weren't going to Brazil; and the kids, Gavin, Star, had not been home-schooled or tutored or in a private school, and actually they were going upstairs to the tutoring service. Gavin and Star were going to the tutoring service upstairs in the kind of, like, strip mall area.
Mr. Sanger: There's some private tutor up there?
Karen Walker: Uh-huh. And that --
Mr. Sanger: You mentioned Brazil. Did she indicate why -- what the purpose of the trip to Brazil was?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did she say anything about the media?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as leading and suggestive.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sanger: Did she say anything about the media?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, was -- how was the demeanor -- what was her demeanor during this conversation?
Karen Walker: She seemed to be fine. Both of the boys seemed to be fine. They said they were going to tutoring because they had missed a lot of school. And I believe she told Miss Peters and I that Major Jackson was paying for the boys to be tutored.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And did she indicate in any way that anything illegal or inappropriate had happened with regard to Mr. Michael Jackson or anybody associated with him?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Good. Now I have no further questions.
The Court: All right. We'll take our break now.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you, Your Honor.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Good afternoon, Mrs. Walker.
Karen Walker: Good afternoon.
Mr. Sneddon: Have you been with the special unit ever since it's been created, the Sensitive Case Unit?
Karen Walker: No, I haven't. Seven years.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you in the department when it was created?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And it was created shortly after the 1993-94 investigation into Mr. Jackson, correct?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Beyond the scope of direct and no foundation.
The Court: Overruled. Next question.
Mr. Sneddon: And one of the hallmarks or one of the goals of the unit was to intensify the confidentiality of the investigation when it's a high-profile case, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And in this particular case, this unit that you supervise was assigned this case because Mr. Jackson was a high-profile celebrity, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you aware at the time that you commenced looking into the referral that you obtained or received that there had been a previous '93-'94 investigation by your department?
Mr. Sanger: Objection; beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Karen Walker: I had heard that there was an investigation prior, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: By your department?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And in this particular case, the investigation was conducted under your supervision with the two social workers that you mentioned. There was a report prepared by Miss Peters, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And it's true, is it not, that in this particular case, that the information contained in that report was leaked eventually to the press, correct?
Mr. Sanger: Objection, Your Honor. Beyond the scope and relevance.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Karen Walker: I have my county counsel here, and I don't know of how to -- answering that question.
Mr. Sanger: And 352.
The Court: At this point the question is just whether or not the information was leaked. There's no question about anybody, who did it or anything like that, so --
Karen Walker: The information in our report, though, was not --
The Court: Okay. Just a moment. I think maybe she wants to consult with you, which I'll allow.
Mr. Hunter: May I approach?
The Court: Yeah. (Whereupon, an off-the-record discussion was held between the witness and Mr. Hunter.)
Mr. Hunter: Thank you, Your Honor.
Karen Walker: Can you repeat the question again, please?
Mr. Sneddon: Perhaps the court reporter can read it back.
The Court: Yes.
The Court Reporter: And it's true, is it not, that in this particular case, that the information contained in that report was leaked eventually to the press, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when you went to the apartment on the 20th with the other two social workers, I believe you described a situation as one where Mrs. Arvizo was very friendly, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: She gave everybody a big hug?
Karen Walker: She gave all of us a hug, and so did the kids.
Mr. Sneddon: The kids gave you all hugs?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And seemed to be trying to put a good face on for the situation they were in, correct?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Vague and compound.
Mr. Sneddon: I'll rephrase it.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you believe they were trying to please you?
Karen Walker: No, I believe that she had already spoken to Miss Peters on the phone and she knew that we were coming out to talk to her. And I got the impression she didn't have anything to hide, so everything -- she wasn't worried about the Department of Children Family Services coming out to investigate general neglect or her failing to protect her children.
Mr. Sneddon: So you did not find the fact that she gave you a hug as an unusual situation?
Karen Walker: No. No one's ever given us a hug before and she was very warm and friendly and engaging, but I didn't feel that she had anything to hide or anything.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you use the word “disarming” in describing the situation; that she was trying to disarm the situation, so she was disarming in the way she approached it?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. The question is vague, ambiguous, confusing, compound.
The Court: It's compound, sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall using the word “disarming” to describe her approach to you when you first got there?
Karen Walker: In terms of my report, or --
Mr. Sneddon: I'm just asking if you recall saying that.
Karen Walker: I don't recall.
Mr. Sneddon: You didn't file a report on this visit, did you?
Karen Walker: I didn't what? I'm sorry.
Mr. Sneddon: You didn't file a report on this visit?
Karen Walker: File a report --
Mr. Sneddon: Yeah. We're talking about the 20th.
Karen Walker: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: And we're talking about Janet Ventura, the name you knew her by, Arvizo --
Karen Walker: Right.
Mr. Sneddon: -- at the apartment. And the three social workers, two others and yourself, went to the apartment, correct?
Karen Walker: Because a report had not --
Mr. Sneddon: I just asked you if you went to the apartment.
Karen Walker: I'm sorry. Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And it was a prearranged meeting?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to that meeting, you were not going to file a report, were you? You individually, yourself.
Karen Walker: “File a report” as in write the report?
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am.
Karen Walker: No. Miss Peters wrote the report.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes.
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And did you take notes?
Karen Walker: I probably jotted down a couple of things, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you know what happened to those notes?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Discovery; irrelevant.
The Court: Overruled.
Karen Walker: They were incorporated in Miss Peters' report.
Mr. Sneddon: So some of the things written in Miss Peters' report are things that you remembered as opposed --
Mr. Sanger: Objection; compound.
Mr. Sneddon: I'll rephrase it.
Mr. Sneddon: So you reviewed her report?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And did you see some of the things that you wrote down in her report?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And after -- and then you didn't keep the notes?
Karen Walker: No, because it was inputted into the computer.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, when you went there, you said you were introduced to some people who were already in the apartment when you arrived, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And one of the individuals that you were introduced to was -- I think she was -- he was described by the last witness as being a very -- sort of a physically-looking person, buffed out or something like that?
Mr. Sanger: Objection, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Does that --
Mr. Sanger: I'm sorry.
Mr. Sneddon: -- comport with your recollection?
Karen Walker: Um --
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Improper question, quoting a prior witness, and misstates her testimony.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you describe him as well-built?
Karen Walker: I think I said medium build.
Mr. Sneddon: So you wouldn't describe him as well-built?
Karen Walker: Not to my recollection. I mean medium built.
Mr. Sneddon: Not muscular?
Mr. Sanger: I'm sorry, I didn't understand.
The Court: “Muscular”.
Mr. Sanger: Oh, okay.
The Court: Scratch that. (Laughter.)
Mr. Sanger: I guess -- I suppose the question is, was that a question at this point?
The Court: Well, I didn't read you the whole question. I just read you the word that you thought you couldn't understand.
Mr. Sanger: You're right. I couldn't.
The Court: Rephrase your question, please.
Mr. Sneddon: Have you ever described this individual as being muscular?
Karen Walker: I guess -- I'm thinking medium build. I don't necessarily know if he was like -- well, muscular --
Mr. Sneddon: All right. We won't quibble over whether he had muscles or not. I'll just move on.
Karen Walker: He had a shirt on, and I don't -- I couldn't see him.
Mr. Sneddon: It's -- I -- okay. While you were at the apartment at some point in time, you saw another individual associated with Mr. Jackson, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: You described that person as looking like what? Describe him.
Karen Walker: When -- when we were in the apartment, you're talking about the gentleman that was working for Mr. Jackson, or the other young lady that was there?
Mr. Sneddon: No. No, no. First of all, when you first arrived there, you met the person that you and I were just talking about with the medium build, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And he was in the apartment?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And he was identified as Michael Jackson's security guard, was he not?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Now, after the meeting was completed, did you see another person --
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- that was associated with Mr. Jackson?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And what did that person look like?
Karen Walker: Medium height; not too tall, maybe five-five; Caucasian.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you remember anything else unusual about him?
Karen Walker: Well, I thought he had on makeup.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes. When you were asked about that, you said, “Well, it's Hollywood”, right?
Karen Walker: No, I don't remember saying that.
Mr. Sneddon: You don't remember telling the grand jury that?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. In any case, the particular individual that you saw when you left, the one that you described as possibly having makeup on, that's the same individual you met the next day, isn't it?
Karen Walker: Yes, I believe so.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you talked to the ladies and gentlemen of the jury, or in response to counsel's questions, that you had a number of telephone calls with Janet Arvizo?
Karen Walker: A couple.
Mr. Sneddon: A couple?
Karen Walker: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: That's fine. And what I want to ask you is, when you received a telephone call from her, did she -- did you indicate to her that her children needed to be taken out of their apartment?
Karen Walker: Never.
Mr. Sneddon: Never. Okay. And did you say that they needed to be checked out of their current school?
Karen Walker: Never.
Mr. Sneddon: And that they needed to be placed at some other place to get education?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. You never had that conversation with Mrs. Arvizo?
Karen Walker: No. She said that she wanted them to go to another school and to be home-schooled or to have a private tutor.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am.
Karen Walker: And that they couldn't go back to their same school because of the teasing and the attention that Gavin was getting.
Mr. Sneddon: But you never told her that her children needed to be taken out of their apartment?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sneddon: And you were never asked that by her?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay, fine. Thank you. Now, with regard to the confidentiality issue, obviously it would be improper if somebody tape-recorded a confidential conversation between you and somebody you were investigating, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And to your knowledge, at the time that the interview on the 20th was taking place, you did not know that you were being tape-recorded, correct?
Karen Walker: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And at some point thereafter, you learned that you had, in fact, been tape-recorded during a part of your visit to the Arvizos on the 20th?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you learn about that from the media at first?
Karen Walker: No. My mom called me.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And she heard it on the T.V., correct?
Karen Walker: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: She recognized your voice?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And have you had an opportunity to listen to that tape?
Karen Walker: Never.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So you just -- now, when you were at the apartment, you were introduced to this person with the medium build that was identified as a security guard for Mr. Jackson?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever see that individual hand Janet Arvizo a tape-recorder?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see a tape-recorder while you were there?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you see this individual go into another room with Mrs. Arvizo at any point in time?
Karen Walker: Not that I remember.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So you just don't recall one way or the other?
Karen Walker: I don't recall.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to the conversations with the Arvizo children and Mrs. Arvizo, in describing -- the first question that was asked is what was their relationship with Mr. Jackson, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, the reason that you were there is because you had -- not you personally, but your department had received some referrals from some individuals who were concerned about what they saw on the Bashir video, correct?
Karen Walker: We received a referral based on the Martin Bashir video, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the portion of the Bashir video that was the subject of the concern was the fact that Gavin Arvizo might be sleeping with Mr. Jackson and sharing a bed with him, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object. That calls for hearsay. It's also ambiguous, vague.
The Court: Overruled. She answered it.
Mr. Sneddon: And so while you indicated that the focus was on Mrs. Arvizo in terms of her being a neglectful mother -- that's what you indicated, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: It, in fact, focused on whether -- part of that would be whether or not, in fact, she had allowed her child to sleep in a bed with a 45-year-old man, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to the conversations that you had, let's start with Mrs. Arvizo, she was asked what the nature of the relationship was with Mr. Jackson, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And she said that Michael was like a father to the children?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: “To my children” is actually what she said.
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when Gavin was asked that, he said, “Michael has been like a father to me”, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And then Star said, “Michael is like a father to me”, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And then Davellin, when she's asked that, her answer is, “Michael is like a father to all of us”, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did Gavin also tell you during that conversation that Mr. Jackson had visited him in the hospital?
Karen Walker: I don't remember.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you think it might refresh your recollection if I showed you a copy of Miss Peters' report?
Karen Walker: Sure.
Mr. Sneddon: May I, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: You can ignore all my doodlings and just read it to yourself, okay? Just right here where the check mark is. And you can read up and down if you want, either way. You sure you don't want to turn the page? Just make sure. Okay. Does that refresh your recollection?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And he did say that Mr. Jackson had actually visited him in the hospital, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, I'm not going to go through everything, but I just would like to ask you a few questions about the rest of the interview. Based on what you recall of the interview, was it your understanding that the mother was spending most of the time in the house, the main residence?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: In other words, she was sleeping in the main residence?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And she actually made some statement to you about walking around late at night, correct?
Karen Walker: That she's up all the time at night, something like that, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And you assumed that the statement that she was sleeping in the main house was true, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And you assumed that her statement about being up at night and walking around was true, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And one of the things that Davellin said was that she took a friend with her to the ranch and that she stayed in a room in the house. Do you remember that?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you assumed that was correct or true?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And one of the things that all of the children and Janet said to you was, they were emphasizing the fact that there was always somebody in the room with Mr. Jackson when one of the children was with him, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you assumed that was correct, too?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And Mrs. Arvizo made the statement that Mr. Jackson's room was like an open room and had no doors. Isn't that what she said?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you assumed that to be correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, if any follow-up work was needed to be done in terms of contacting, let's say, Neverland Ranch, would that have been done by you or Miss Peters?
Karen Walker: Miss Peters.
Mr. Sneddon: You're her supervisor, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever suggest that she check the ranch to see what Mr. Jackson's room is like?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever suggest that she check the ranch to determine what the sleeping arrangements had been?
Karen Walker: No. I think we did contact Santa Barbara Child Protective Services, and they hadn't gone out there.
Mr. Sneddon: But with regard to the completion of the report that you folks were doing, you didn't do any of that?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. The answer is in. Next question.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Sneddon: May I have a moment, Your Honor? (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Sneddon: Mrs. Walker, I want to go back to something to get some clarification, if I can.
Karen Walker: Sure.
Mr. Sneddon: You know, I asked you the question about whether Janet Arvizo had spoken to you and said that the children needed to be taken out of their apartment. Do you remember me asking you that?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: You said, “No”.
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you recall if anybody ever called you up and asked you about that?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. No, it didn't happen? Or no, you don't recall?
Karen Walker: Nobody called to tell me about her moving out of her apartment, no.
Mr. Sneddon: Or asking you if they should be moved out?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Now, I just actually have a couple of questions left. I want to talk about the Fatburger meeting. And when you met Mrs. Arvizo at the Fatburger, she described her situation at the ranch as being horrible, did she not?
Karen Walker: I believe they told Lavern and I that they hadn't been back to the ranch.
Mr. Sneddon: No -- yes, well, but when she was describing the situation that she had been in at the ranch, at one point in time she described it to you, and the word she used was “horrible”, did she not?
Karen Walker: Okay. Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: I mean, you had a conversation with detectives with the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department back in December of 2003?
Karen Walker: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Does that sound about right?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And in that conversation, you told them that she described the situation at the ranch when she was there as being horrible?
Karen Walker: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Nothing further.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, your answer to the last question was, “Okay”. Does that mean that's your recollection of what happened, or you're just agreeing that that must be what you said because Mr. Sneddon asked you?
Karen Walker: Well, I'm just trying to remember exactly in terms of her saying it was horrible when we were at the Fatburger incident, was there any other follow-up to that, and I can't remember.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So do you remember saying -- do you remember her saying to you that her -- that anything to do with the ranch was horrible?
Karen Walker: Well, I know they said that they hadn't been back there. And I think Miss Peters is the one that said, “Have you been back to the ranch?” And they said, “No, we haven't been back there. It was horrible”, if -- if that's the context in which she said it in, and I'm not sure.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall Miss Arvizo telling you that she was trying to get ahold of Michael Jackson and she wasn't able to talk to him directly?
Karen Walker: At the -- you're talking the Fatburger incident?
Mr. Sanger: At any time did she tell you that was one of her problems, that she wanted to talk to Michael Jackson directly, and she wasn't able to get ahold of him directly?
Karen Walker: No, I don't remember her saying that to me.
Mr. Sanger: I want to try to go back and clarify this, because maybe I misheard, because it seemed to me you were asked about the phone calls from Janet Arvizo Ventura by Mr. Sneddon just a moment ago, and you were asked if you ever told Janet Arvizo that they needed to leave the school and get a different apartment. Do you remember him asking you that question?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And I may be wrong, but I thought you said you did not tell her that, but Janet had told you that.
Karen Walker: I never told her that they need to move out of their apartment or leave the school that the boys were attending.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Did Janet Arvizo tell you that?
Karen Walker: She might have told me that.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Karen Walker: But I never told her that.
Mr. Sanger: And it wouldn't be your place in a phone call after your investigation is concluded to give her that kind of advice, would it?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, there's been much about what was said in the actual interview. Have you reviewed your notes? You said you had notes and you eventually threw them away because they were incorporated, right?
Karen Walker: (Nods head up and down.)
Mr. Sanger: When was the last time you ever saw those notes?
Karen Walker: Two years ago.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And do you know if everything in the report is absolutely accurate as to what the Arvizos were saying to the three of you that day?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you think it's pretty accurate?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, did -- did Davellin tell you that she spent time with a friend at Neverland?
Karen Walker: As opposed to --
Mr. Sanger: As opposed to taking a friend to Neverland.
Karen Walker: I know for sure that she had a friend at Neverland, because she told us that she did.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did she tell you that she spent time at the theater with her friend?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did she tell you -- did she explain where the theater was?
Karen Walker: She -- she did, but I can't remember --
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Karen Walker: -- where she said it was.
Mr. Sanger: Some things were more important to get right in the report -- I shouldn't say “right”. I suppose it's important to try to get everything right, but there are some things that are going to be more of a focus in a report like that, in your experience, right?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you have anybody draw you a diagram of Neverland?
Karen Walker: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did Janet Arvizo tell you that she stayed in the guest room?
Karen Walker: I believe so.
Mr. Sanger: Did she tell you where the guest room was in the house complex?
Karen Walker: Not that I can remember.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Do you recall anybody asking her where the guest room was?
Karen Walker: Not that I can remember.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And then you were asked questions about whether or not somebody said that Michael Jackson visited Gavin at the hospital. Do you recall that?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you know whether or not you were told that Michael Jackson actually went to the hospital room? Was there any description saying, “Yeah, he arrived and came in the door and sat there at the hospital bed”, or was there a statement to the -- a more general statement that he visited with Gavin while he was ill?
Karen Walker: He visited while he was ill.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I have no further questions. Thank you.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: All right. First of all, you were asked by Mr. Sanger about your recollection of where Janet Arvizo was sleeping at Neverland Valley Ranch, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And, now, the report actually states, does it not, that, “I stay in the visitors' quarters, but” --
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object. This is hearsay, reading from the report.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you not tell me on your cross-examination that your assumption was that Mrs. Arvizo stayed in the main residence, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: It's still your impression, is it not?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And that Mr. Jackson's bedroom is another part of the main residence, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, with regard to Davellin taking somebody with her to the ranch, do you remember whether she use the word “take” or whether there was somebody already there?
Karen Walker: I don't remember.
Mr. Sneddon: Is it -- is this a fair statement, that your impression was, based on your recollection of that conversation, that the person that she was with at the ranch was somebody who was a friend of hers and that she took that person to the ranch with her to keep her company?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And that, in fact, she said that she took the person to the ranch, and they stayed in a room in the main house, correct?
Karen Walker: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Now it's compound.
The Court: Overruled. The answer was, “Yes”. Next question.
Mr. Sneddon: I have nothing further, Your Honor.
Mr. Sanger: No further questions.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down. Call your next witness.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, the defense will call Ms. Simone Jackson. And could we approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes. (Discussion held off the record at sidebar.)
The Court: Hello. You can raise your right hand, please. Face the clerk here.
Message: SIMONE PECH JACKSON Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Simone Jackson: Yes.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Simone Jackson: Simone Pech Jackson. S-i-m-o-n-e; P-e-c-h; Ja-c-k-s-o-n.
Bailiff Cortez: If you'd speak loud and use this microphone, okay?
Simone Jackson: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good afternoon, Miss Jackson. Miss Jackson?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: This -- hi. Miss Jackson?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. My name is Tom Mesereau, and I speak for Michael Jackson, okay?
Simone Jackson: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Do you know Michael Jackson?
Simone Jackson: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: How do you know him?
Simone Jackson: He's my cousin.
Mr. Mesereau: And where is your home?
Simone Jackson: In Lompoc.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how old are you?
Simone Jackson: 16.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, have you ever visited Neverland?
Simone Jackson: Yes, I have.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times do you think you've been to Neverland?
Simone Jackson: I don't -- I don't know. A lot.
Mr. Mesereau: Many times, right?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And have you spent the night at Neverland?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Bailiff Cortez: I'm sorry. Scoot up a little bit more and get a little closer.
Simone Jackson: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: When you go to Neverland, what do you like to do?
Simone Jackson: I like to play in the arcade room.
Mr. Mesereau: Why is that?
Simone Jackson: Because there's a lot of games there to play.
Mr. Mesereau: And have you been playing in the arcade room for a lot of years?
Simone Jackson: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember the first time you went to Neverland?
Simone Jackson: No, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: How old do you think you might have been?
Simone Jackson: Probably about eight, nine years old.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you have a brother?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what's your brother's name?
Simone Jackson: Rio Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: And how old is Rio?
Simone Jackson: 12.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember being at Neverland and meeting a family named Arvizo?
Simone Jackson: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know approximately when that was?
Simone Jackson: It was sometime around February of --
Mr. Mesereau: Is that 2003?
Simone Jackson: -- 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know why you were visiting Neverland in February of 2003?
Simone Jackson: It was Prince's birthday.
Mr. Mesereau: And who is Prince?
Simone Jackson: Michael's son.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember how old Prince was?
Simone Jackson: No, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there a birthday party?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Where was the birthday party?
Simone Jackson: At the ranch.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were the Arvizos at the birthday party; do you know?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Anyone else at the birthday party that you remember?
Simone Jackson: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And was Michael Jackson at the birthday party?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did it take place?
Simone Jackson: It took place in the dining room.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And that's in the main house?
Simone Jackson: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you remember about the party?
Simone Jackson: There was -- it was a surprise, and there was a lot of kids there, and that's mostly what I remember.
Mr. Mesereau: And if you know, how many kids were at the party?
Simone Jackson: About ten.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were they children that you knew?
Simone Jackson: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And were there a lot of adults there, too?
Simone Jackson: A few.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you know about what time the party started?
Simone Jackson: No, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever meet Janet Arvizo?
Simone Jackson: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And when do you think you met Janet Arvizo?
Simone Jackson: I met her the second -- the time after February. The second time I went there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And that's in the year 2003?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Simone Jackson: It was sometime in March.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Janet Arvizo at the -- at Prince's birthday party?
Simone Jackson: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was Gavin Arvizo at the birthday party?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Star Arvizo at the party?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Davellin Arvizo?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, was this a party that appeared to be organized by Michael Jackson?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you said it took place in the main dining room, right?
Simone Jackson: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And was food served?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did everyone sit at a table?
Simone Jackson: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And were there presents?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did Prince get some presents?
Simone Jackson: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what else were the children doing that you remember at the party?
Simone Jackson: Playing games.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were they playing in the main dining room?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What kind of games?
Simone Jackson: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know what time the party began?
Simone Jackson: No, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did it end any particular time that you remember?
Simone Jackson: Huh-uh.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it during the day?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did it go into the night, do you think?
Simone Jackson: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, were you staying at Neverland when you visited to attend Prince's party?
Simone Jackson: No, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you go home at the end of the day?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you get home? Did somebody drive you?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know who that was?
Simone Jackson: I don't remember who it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How did you get to Neverland for the party, if you remember?
Simone Jackson: Somebody came to pick us up.
Mr. Mesereau: Somebody associated with Michael?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And does Michael from time to time have people pick you up and bring you to Neverland?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And sometimes does Michael have somebody bring you home?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever see the Arvizo children at Neverland on any other -- on any other date?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that, do you think?
Simone Jackson: Sometime around March.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was that March of 2003?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at Prince's birthday party in February, was your brother Rio there?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you next saw the Arvizo children in March of 2003, was Rio there also?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And where did you stay -- excuse me. Let me rephrase that. When you saw the Arvizo children at Neverland in March of 2003, did you spend the night?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you spend more than one night?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many nights do you think you spent?
Simone Jackson: Three.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where did you stay during those three nights?
Simone Jackson: In one of the units.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that a guest unit?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And is that one of the units that is separate from the main house?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And those units are a short walk to the main house, right?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know where your brother Rio stayed?
Simone Jackson: He stayed with Gavin and Star.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where was that?
Simone Jackson: In one of the guest units also.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you see Rio in the guest unit with Gavin and Star?
Simone Jackson: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you actually go into the unit that Gavin, Star and Rio were staying in?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you know what time of day you went into that guest unit where Gavin, Star and Rio were staying?
Simone Jackson: It was at night.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And was it your understanding that Rio spent the night in the guest unit with Gavin and Star?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember ever seeing Gavin and Star in the kitchen in the main house?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When do you remember seeing that?
Simone Jackson: It was one o'clock in the morning.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when that was? Was that in March of 2003?
Simone Jackson: It was in March.
Mr. Mesereau: Was this during the three-day visit that you just described?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you were in the main house at that time of the morning?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you were in the kitchen at that time of the morning, right?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What did you see Gavin and Star do in the kitchen at 1:00 in the morning during March of 2003?
Simone Jackson: I saw them take wine.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you say you saw them take wine, did you see one of them take it, or both?
Simone Jackson: Both of them. They each had a bottle.
Mr. Mesereau: And were they in the kitchen with the bottles?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see them actually take the bottle from some location?
Simone Jackson: No, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you walk into the kitchen and see them with these two bottles?
Simone Jackson: They didn't -- they didn't see me. I was sitting to the side. They didn't see me when they came in.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, where were you sitting?
Simone Jackson: I was sitting in a corner.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, if you can describe it, where is that corner?
Simone Jackson: It's on the closer side of the kitchen. There's like a video game there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Simone Jackson: And they couldn't see me.
Mr. Mesereau: And what time -- excuse me. You were sitting there in the corner, right?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you on a chair?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you saw Gavin and Star come into the main house?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see them go into the kitchen area?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you actually watch them grab these two bottles of wine?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you see them do? How did they grab the wine?
Simone Jackson: They just -- they grabbed it, and they both got a -- well, Star got a wine bottle -- a wine glass, and Gavin just took the bottle.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what else did you see them do?
Simone Jackson: They left.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you know which direction they went when they left?
Simone Jackson: They went through the back door.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when was the last time you saw them that evening?
Simone Jackson: I didn't see them after that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, why were you sitting in the corner?
Simone Jackson: I was playing video games.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know about what time you went into the main house?
Simone Jackson: It was around 1:00 in the morning.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you know what game you were playing?
Simone Jackson: No, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you see Gavin and Star get the wine from the refrigerator?
Simone Jackson: No, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you see them get it?
Simone Jackson: I saw them get it from a corner, but I don't remember -- I don't remember where exactly they got it from.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that a corner in the kitchen area?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, is the kitchen area a big area?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you've been in that kitchen area many times, right?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how would you describe the kitchen?
Simone Jackson: Very big, very brown, lots of silverware.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you see a lot of refrigerators, right?
Simone Jackson: Just one.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. On the left side, as you face the kitchen, right?
Simone Jackson: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, if you can describe it, Simone, where is the video game you were playing?
Simone Jackson: It was on the counter where the people eat.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you sit on a chair at the counter?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And is there one video game on that counter?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So were you sitting there playing the video game?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you done that before?
Simone Jackson: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you saw Gavin and Star grab the wine, did you say anything to them?
Simone Jackson: After they saw me, they had seen me, I told them that he weren't allowed -- they weren't supposed to do that, and they told me to be quiet and not to say anything.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And was that the only discussion you had with them that evening?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Did you ever see them with wine any other time?
Simone Jackson: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that the only time?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, do you know Gavin and Star's sister?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And her name is Davellin?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first meet Davellin?
Simone Jackson: At the party.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that Prince's birthday party?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And did you see Davellin sitting at the table at that party?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was Davellin with her brother and sister at that party?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, when you saw Gavin and Star and Davellin at Prince's birthday party in February of 2003, did you know whether or not they were staying at Neverland?
Simone Jackson: No, I didn't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you never saw their mother on that visit, right?
Simone Jackson: No.
Mr. Mesereau: When you saw Davellin, Gavin and Star at Neverland in March of 2003, did you see their mom?
Simone Jackson: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And was that the first time you recall meeting their mom?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Where did you see Gavin, Star and Davellin's mom in March of 2003?
Simone Jackson: She was in one of the guest units.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And did you ever go into her unit?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you see her in there?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. In March of 2003 when you stayed at Neverland, what did you used to do during the day?
Simone Jackson: I would go out and see the animals.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Is that at the zoo area?
Simone Jackson: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And would Rio go with you?
Simone Jackson: No, he would stay and do his own thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did Gavellin -- excuse me. Did Davellin ever go with you to the zoo?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she go with you to the zoo on many occasions?
Simone Jackson: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times do you recall going to the zoo with Davellin?
Simone Jackson: Probably once or twice.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what do you recall doing at the zoo when Davellin was with you?
Simone Jackson: We'd go see the birds.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And why don't you describe that, if you can.
Simone Jackson: We'd usually just go and talk to each other about what -- like what kind of things were going on in our lives.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did she become a friend of yours?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you ever talk to Davellin at any time other than those two visits to Neverland?
Simone Jackson: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you and Davellin ever talk on the phone, for example?
Simone Jackson: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you thought of her as a friend?
Simone Jackson: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you and she went and looked at the birds, right?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And is there an area where you have a lot of birds at the zoo?
Simone Jackson: There's just one small area where the birds are.
Mr. Mesereau: Are those the birds that are outside in the cages?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you and Davellin walk all around Neverland?
Simone Jackson: Sometimes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where would you walk to?
Simone Jackson: We'd usually walk to the train station or we'd take a walk to the movie theater.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what would you and Davellin do at the train station?
Simone Jackson: Get candy.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you ever ride the trains?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Just you and Davellin?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember walking around Neverland with Gavin or Star? Did you ever do that?
Simone Jackson: Huh-uh.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, during your three-day visit in March of 2003, did you spend a lot of time with Davellin?
Simone Jackson: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you with Davellin every day?
Simone Jackson: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How many days do you think you palled around with Davellin?
Simone Jackson: Probably two out of three.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And were you and Davellin ever in the main house in that visit?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what time of day were you and Davellin in the main house on that visit, if you know?
Simone Jackson: Usually in the afternoon.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And was it your understanding that your brother Rio was hanging out with Gavin and Star?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you see Rio hanging out with Gavin and Star?
Simone Jackson: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Do you recall ever discussing with Davellin a possible trip to Brazil?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How did that topic come up?
Simone Jackson: She just told me one day out of the blue that she had to go to Brazil and I probably wouldn't see her again.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did she say anything about whether or not her mom wanted to go to Brazil?
Simone Jackson: Yeah. She said her mom wanted to go.
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as hearsay.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me, Simone, what did you say?
Simone Jackson: Her mom wanted to go.
Mr. Mesereau: Davellin said her mom wanted to go to Brazil?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Davellin say whether or not Davellin wanted to go to Brazil?
Simone Jackson: She said she didn't want to go.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did Davellin comment about whether or not Gavin wanted to go?
Simone Jackson: She never said anything about Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How about Star?
Simone Jackson: Him either.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But she said her mom wanted to go, but she didn't want to go, right?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you observed Janet Arvizo in March of 2003, did she ever seem upset to you?
Simone Jackson: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Janet Arvizo ever seem mad to you?
Simone Jackson: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever look scared to you?
Simone Jackson: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How many times do you think you were in Janet's room in the guest units in March of 2003?
Simone Jackson: Just once.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you know about what time of day that was?
Simone Jackson: No, I don't.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it daylight; do you know?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. It wasn't the evening?
Simone Jackson: No.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And how many times do you think you were in the guest unit where your brother Rio was staying with Gavin and Star during your visit in March 2003?
Simone Jackson: Once.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was that during daytime or nighttime, do you think?
Simone Jackson: Nighttime.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was it your understanding that Rio stayed in Gavin and Star's unit for two nights?
Simone Jackson: One night.
Mr. Mesereau: One night, okay.
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object to lack of foundation, no personal knowledge.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: During your visit to Neverland in March of 2003, did you know where Rio spent his evenings?
Simone Jackson: With Gavin and Star. I didn't know where they were going, but he stayed with Gavin and Star.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as nonresponsive beyond “yes” or “no”. The question was “did you know”; and lack of foundation.
The Court: Foundation, sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know which guest unit your brother Rio was staying in --
Simone Jackson: No.
Mr. Mesereau: -- during 2003?
Simone Jackson: No.
Mr. Mesereau: March, okay. Now, did you used -- did you used to have meals with Davellin at Neverland during your visit in March of 2003?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And where would you and Davellin eat your meals?
Simone Jackson: In the kitchen.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember ever eating meals with Rio, Star or Gavin during your visit in March of 2003?
Simone Jackson: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you eat every meal in March of 2003 with Davellin?
Simone Jackson: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How many meals do you remember eating with Davellin in March of 2003, if you know?
Simone Jackson: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, how did you get to Neverland, you and Rio, when you visited in March of 2003?
Simone Jackson: One of Michael's employees would bring us, would come and pick us up.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did -- when you left, did one of Michael's employees bring you home?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you came to visit Neverland in March of 2003, was it just you and Rio, or was anyone else with you?
Simone Jackson: Just me and Rio.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you would visit Neverland in 2003, if you wanted to enter the main house, how would you do it?
Simone Jackson: Through the back door.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And would someone let you in?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have to knock on the door to do that?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And is that a door near the kitchen area?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. And do you remember entering through the back door into the main house with Davellin?
Simone Jackson: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: Do you want to stop at this point?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. We'll reconvene tomorrow at 8:30.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:30 p.m.
