Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Friday, May 13, 2005 8:30 a.m.
The Court: Good morning, everyone.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor.
The Court: (To the jury) How was it?
A Juror: What?
The Court: The breakfast.
The Jury: (In unison) We didn't have a breakfast.
Juror No. 7: It's lunch.
The Court: Oh, you're getting lunch? That's what they promised.
Juror No. 4: My cereal was okay.
The Court: I had information that you were going to get breakfast. So you're getting lunch.
A Juror: We got presents. We got cups.
The Court: All right. Let me just say don't eat too much at lunch. Okay. Counsel, are you ready to proceed?
Mr. Auchincloss: I am, Your Honor. But, I'm sorry, with the Court's permission, I'd like to have a brief sidebar to discuss a matter that I don't want to go into without your permission.
The Court: All right. (Discussion held off the record at sidebar.)
The Court: All right.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you, Your Honor.
Message: DAVID G. LEGRAND Having been previously sworn, resumed the stand and testified further as follows:
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION Continued BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Good morning, Mr. LeGrand.
David LeGrand: Good morning.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yesterday we talked about the LLC Fire Mountain, and you indicated that that LLC, that limited liability corporation, was formed to act as the corporation under which the proceeds from the FOX special, “The Footage You Were Never Meant To See” or what we've been calling the “Take 2” video, to basically funnel those assets or those -- the cash that was produced from that program and then disburse to various parties. Is that correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And I asked you -- I'm not sure if we ever got the answer, but I asked you, and I'm asking you now, was that corporation formed to conceal assets from Mr. Jackson's creditors?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; relevance.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Auchincloss: In any way.
David LeGrand: There were multiple concerns with regard to the “Take 2” video at the inception of the process. There was a letter from Granada basically demanding that no footage of Martin Bashir be utilized without Granada's permission, so we had significant concerns about potential liabilities associated with Fire Mountain. There were also concerns, not so much about trade creditors in general, but, rather, that the mounting financial demands of the lawyers, the accountants, the production people be met, and we had not yet -- there was -- we had not yet accomplished a complete transition of money management affairs and open --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object at this time as nonresponsive.
David LeGrand: Okay.
The Court: The objection is overruled. I'll allow him to complete his answer.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
David LeGrand: I opened a dialogue with Bank of America and discussed with the bank representatives the relationship of Fire Mountain with FOX, and to my knowledge, there was never a demand of default made by Bank of America with respect to any of their credit protection provisions.
Mr. Auchincloss: My question was, was that Fire Mountain, Limited Liability Corporation, formed in any way to conceal assets from Mr. Jackson's creditors? And my question goes beyond the Bank of America.
Mr. Mesereau: Same objection.
Mr. Auchincloss: And do you understand the question?
David LeGrand: Yeah. It was not my intent to conceal. It was my intent to protect the cash flows being received in order to address the financial needs of my client, Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Well, you testified that Mr. Jackson had creditors with outstanding bills in excess of ten million dollars, true? Yes?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And some of those creditors had initiated lawsuits; isn't that true?
David LeGrand: I don't know that creditors had initiated lawsuits. The two primary lawsuits that were pending that I had knowledge of early on were the Avram case and the Myung Ho Lee case.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
David LeGrand: I don't know that those gentlemen were creditors at that time, because I don't remember seeing them listed in the payables listings. There was a subsequent lawsuit -- I mean, there was a lawsuit filed somewhere, hmm, I'm not sure if it was late February or early March, filed by an auction house in New York with respect to a painting.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would that be Sotheby's?
David LeGrand: Yes. Yes, that was Sotheby's.
Mr. Auchincloss: And that dealt with a painting Mr. Jackson purchased but never paid for; is that correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; relevance.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. But in effect, the Fire Mountain corporation would prevent any of these creditors from getting their hands on the money, the proceedings from the FOX production; true? I'd like a “yes” or “no” question -- answer to that question.
David LeGrand: I don't know --
Mr. Auchincloss: If you know.
David LeGrand: I don't know how it would prevent creditors from getting to it. I mean, if a creditor took a judgment debtor exam of someone and found that this subsidiary of MJJ had these funds, the question is creditor of whom, I guess? I mean, the goal of Fire Mountain was to serve as a subsidiary to MJJ Productions.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who is Marcel Avram? You just mentioned that. Who is that?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; relevance.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: What I've read is that he was a promoter who had entered into some agreements with -- and I'm not sure who with, but with Mr. Jackson or entities affiliated with Mr. Jackson. I'm not even sure who the parties were in that litigation.
Mr. Auchincloss: And that was a multimillion-dollar lawsuit?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And that was here in Santa Maria?
David LeGrand: I don't know where it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; relevance.
Mr. Auchincloss: My question -- I'm sorry.
The Court: Next question. Overruled.
Mr. Auchincloss: And that lawsuit was going on during February of 2003?
David LeGrand: I think so, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And --
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: If that lawsuit went bad, wasn't it your opinion that bankruptcy was assured for Mr. Jackson?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Foundation sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever send an e-mail to the effect that bankruptcy was assured if the Marcel Avram lawsuit went bad for Mr. Jackson?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; leading; relevance.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: I don't recall such a specific e-mail. It's possible. But I don't recall.
Mr. Auchincloss: If I could have a moment, Your Honor.
The Court: You may.
Mr. Auchincloss: Let me just ask a follow-up question. Was that your opinion?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll come back to that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. LeGrand, did you talk to anybody after you left the stand here today (sic) about your testimony in this case?
David LeGrand: I did not speak about my testimony in this case. I did speak to several people last night.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who did you talk to?
David LeGrand: Talked to my wife.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you talk to anybody that was involved in this case in any fashion?
David LeGrand: I don't know whether “involved” or not. I did call Al Malnik.
Mr. Auchincloss: Why did you call Mr. Malnik?
David LeGrand: He's -- his wife is expecting a child. It's been any day for the last couple of weeks. And I called to inquire as to his wife's health and the prospect of delivery.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you work for Mr. Malnik?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you been employed with Mr. -- by Mr. Malnik in the past?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Malnik has never paid you for any services --
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- is that your testimony?
David LeGrand: That's my testimony.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you ever taken any directives from Mr. Malnik concerning legal matters regarding Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Why did you take directives from Mr. Malnik concerning Mr. Jackson's affairs?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; relevance.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: I was instructed by Mr. Jackson to do so.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did Mr. Malnik work for Mr. Jackson, as far as you knew?
David LeGrand: As far as I knew.
Mr. Auchincloss: What was his relationship with Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: I believe he was a friend and I believe he was an attorney.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know if Mr. Malnik was retained by Mr. Jackson as an attorney?
David LeGrand: I did not see an engagement letter. I was instructed by Mr. Jackson to submit all documents that were to be signed by Mr. Jackson, they were to be reviewed by Mr. Malnik before presentation to Mr. Jackson. That instruction was given to Ronald Konitzer and Dieter Weizner as well.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you attended meetings with Mr. Malnik and Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: On how many occasions?
David LeGrand: Once for sure. There may have been a second meeting during that same weekend, but I'm not sure. But I know of one in particular. It was mid to late March. Mr. Fishman and I flew to Florida. I think that's when. I'm not sure of the dates, though.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did Mr. Konitzer attend that meeting?
David LeGrand: There were several meetings and Mr. -- there were several meetings with myself and Mr. Malnik and Mr. Konitzer attended one of those meetings.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was Mr. Jackson present?
David LeGrand: I think so.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was Mr. Weizner present?
David LeGrand: You know, I think Dieter was there, but I'm honestly not sure today.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know what time in March that was?
David LeGrand: Well, it was before the 28th. I think it was a week to ten days before the 28th of March, but I'm not sure exactly.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was it before your services were terminated as Mr. Jackson's attorney?
David LeGrand: Yes. That's why I know it's before the 28th.
Mr. Auchincloss: And the purpose of that meeting was what?
David LeGrand: To discuss the overall positions, to discuss the -- to discuss how or whether we would continue the various relationships, because Ronald was upset with me for having pointed the finger at him with respect to the $965,000. We were attempting in that meeting to construct a framework under which we would -- you know, Ronald and Dieter would remain involved in -- as, you know, consultants, advisors to Mr. Jackson. But Mr. Malnik essentially emerged, in my opinion, as the primary person with Michael Jackson's trust and confidence for business decisions.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Malnik was one of the people you had investigated?
David LeGrand: Yes, he is.
Mr. Auchincloss: So you were suspicious of him, too?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you voiced those suspicions to Mr. Jackson, didn't you?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: You voiced those suspicions to Mr. Jackson about Mr. Konitzer?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Mr. Weizner?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you were suspicious about Mr. Jackson's personal assistant, Evvy?
David LeGrand: Yes. Primarily because Mr. Konitzer --
Mr. Auchincloss: There's no question pending.
David LeGrand: Oh. Sorry.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you were suspicious about Mr. Geragos?
David LeGrand: Yes, I was.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you were suspicious about Mr. Jackson's attorney, Mr. Cochran's associate, Zia Modabber?
David LeGrand: Less so, but yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, you had him investigated?
David LeGrand: Less so, but yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you were suspicious about Mr. Gross, who worked for Fred Haber, the foreign rights people, Edgar Gross? Maybe I'm misstating that. Did you have Edgar Gross investigated?
David LeGrand: I don't remember that name. Was it -- do you mean -- I'm sorry, I don't recall.
Mr. Auchincloss: You were suspicious about a Dr. Armen Kazanchian?
David LeGrand: Yes, I was.
Mr. Auchincloss: You were suspicious about Mr. Jackson's long-standing business manager, Trudi Green?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: These people had really very little connection with one another, did they? I mean, you tell me. Did they have connection with one another?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: In effect, you had investigated everybody who was within Michael Jackson's inner circle; isn't that true?
David LeGrand: I don't know, because I don't know your definition of “inner circle”. I investigated people that I viewed as being close to Michael or having the potential to do harm to Michael as I saw it at the time.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you were suspicious of them all, correct?
David LeGrand: Um, I was -- I was cautious. I was becoming more cautious as time went on.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, didn't you testify that you had everybody investigated that you found suspicious?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure those were my exact words, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, was that true or not?
David LeGrand: No. I did not have everybody investigated whom I found suspicious. There were certainly people who I had concerns about, but who did not have a position such that I was overly -- sufficiently concerned to spend money.
Mr. Auchincloss: But you had concerns about all these people. Will you go that far?
David LeGrand: Concerns about a lot of people.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And as far as this $900,000, you don't know what that money was for, do you?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: You don't know if that money was owed to Dieter and Ronald, do you?
David LeGrand: No, I don't. I never saw -- I never saw evidence it was.
Mr. Auchincloss: Right. But you never saw any evidence whatsoever about what that $900,000 was for, did you?
David LeGrand: No, I never saw evidence of it.
Mr. Auchincloss: You don't know if Mr. Jackson knew about that at the time or didn't know about it at the time, do you, at the time it was disbursed?
David LeGrand: No, I didn't.
Mr. Auchincloss: So you just pointed the finger with virtually no evidence against these people because of your suspicions; isn't that fair to say?
David LeGrand: I discussed the matter with Mr. Malnik, and at his direction prepared the letter. He reviewed the letter. So this was not my independent action.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, if this was an embezzlement, wouldn't it be an incredibly lame attempt to embezzle money from a trust account of an attorney with a paper trail one inch long leading directly to the embezzlers?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would you agree with me that it would be a very poor plan to embezzle money?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would you agree with me that there was never any attempt to conceal that that money went from the trust account to Mr. Weizner and Mr. Konitzer?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Misstates the evidence and foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer. Do you want that question read back?
David LeGrand: I believe that --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. He's cutting off the witness, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained. Let the witness answer the question.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
David LeGrand: I believe that Mr. Konitzer was unhappy that Mr. Finkelstein gave me that accounting.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would you agree that there was never any attempt to conceal that those moneys went from that trust account to Mr. Weizner and Mr. Konitzer; yes or no?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation and misstates the evidence.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: I do not know -- I do not have actual knowledge of an attempt to conceal those disbursements.
Mr. Auchincloss: Michael Jackson Universe, MJ Universe, that was the plan that Ronald and Dieter were working on with Mr. Jackson to remake his image and career, correct?
David LeGrand: I'm -- I'm not sure I agree with the characterization, “remake his image and career”. It was the business plan that Ronald and Dieter had put forth.
Mr. Auchincloss: It was a promotional plan for Michael Jackson, correct?
David LeGrand: It involved elements of using Michael Jackson's trademarks, image and likeness to gain revenue.
Mr. Auchincloss: Wouldn't that be a promotional plan?
David LeGrand: I'm not trying to be difficult. I just don't know what you mean by “a promotional plan”. I mean, that's all.
Mr. Auchincloss: What I mean by “promotional plan” is a plan that promotes Mr. Jackson. Was it designed to promote Mr. Jackson's image and likeness, his name, to sell products to make profit?
David LeGrand: I certainly agree it was part of the plan to use his image and likeness to sell products and make profit.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was it also the idea of this plan, this new enterprise, MJ Universe, to save Mr. Jackson from impending financial ruin? Yes or no.
David LeGrand: When the plan was first -- the first development of the plan, none of us had knowledge of Mr. Jackson's financial affairs. So the plan was developed in a context where we, that is, Mr. Konitzer, and he expressed to me his belief that Mr. Jackson had significant financial resources to call upon. So the original plan was not about financial ruin. It was developed before any of us knew of the financial circumstances that ultimately were disclosed to me in February of 2003.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is it true that the plan was designed to make everyone, including Michael Jackson and yourself, a lot of money?
David LeGrand: The intent of the plan was to make money, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: One of the mechanisms for this plan was to use the Internet as a platform; is that true?
David LeGrand: Yes. There was a portion of the plan devoted to Internet.
Mr. Auchincloss: You testified yesterday that it seemed like everybody around Michael Jackson was interested in profiting; is that accurate? That was your opinion?
David LeGrand: Many people, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you see something wrong with that, with people profiting who worked for Michael Jackson?
David LeGrand: I see nothing wrong with people earning appropriate income from providing services.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Michael Jackson Universe --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. I don't think the witness has completed his response, Your Honor.
David LeGrand: I got concerned about where it appeared people wanted to have excessive amounts of money in relation to their contribution.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And this is where some of your suspicions took off?
David LeGrand: That's where they were derived, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: But as it turned out, you really didn't know where those funds were going, you've testified, correct?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation and misstates the evidence.
The Court: Vague; sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: As far as this plan, the idea or hope was to make hundreds of millions of dollars, true?
David LeGrand: That was the hope.
Mr. Auchincloss: And that was a hope that Mr. Jackson had, or shared with Mr. Konitzer, true?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
David LeGrand: Whoops.
The Court: Overruled. The answer was, “Yes”.
David LeGrand: Yes.
The Court: Next question.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Mr. Konitzer, from your point of view, had a genuine interest in the success of Michael Jackson, both for his own benefit and for the benefit of Mr. Jackson; isn't that fair to say?
David LeGrand: Yes. That's -- I mean, that's true. Mr. Konitzer, I believe, was quite sincere in many respects and there was no question that he saw the opportunity for significant financial gain and that that gain would -- the largest gain would come if Mr. Jackson also realized a significant financial benefit.
Mr. Auchincloss: If this plan took off, Mr. Konitzer had a very legitimate hope of earning millions and millions of dollars, true?
David LeGrand: Yes. But I'll also tell you that both Mr. Malnik and I were very skeptical about Mr. Konitzer's plan.
Mr. Auchincloss: I understand that, but that's not a question I asked you. But that was the hope. That was the idea between you, Mr. Jackson, Mr. Konitzer, that was the reason for Michael Jackson Universe, correct?
David LeGrand: The reason was to create profit, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: So would you agree it doesn't make much sense for Mr. Konitzer to attempt to steal a few hundred thousand dollars at the very beginning of his relationship with Mr. Jackson?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Argumentative; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
Mr. Auchincloss: Your investigation of these various people was designed to clean house again, wasn't it? Do you understand that question? Maybe I should start over again. You're aware that Mr. Jackson had just cleaned house, he just fired all the people he had been working with for years, including some he hadn't worked with for very long?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation and misstates the evidence.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll simplify the question.
The Court: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: You're aware Mr. Jackson had just cleaned house by firing a number of his associates and close employees, correct, you've testified to that?
David LeGrand: No, I don't think I did. What employees were terminated?
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, people that worked for Mr. Jackson. I don't mean to quibble about semantics. Mr. Branca was fired, correct?
David LeGrand: I'm not aware he was ever an employee of Mr. Jackson. I believe he's an attorney who was providing services to Mr. Jackson. Yes, his services were terminated during this process.
Mr. Auchincloss: Are you saying that Mr. Branca was never employed by Mr. Jackson in any fashion?
David LeGrand: No, I'm saying he was not a W-2 statutory employee, which is the sense in which I'm used to using the term. I don't mean to be difficult, but, you know, this is -- my background is corporate law, and “employee” means something very specific to me.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. When I'm asking questions, just so you know, I'll be asking them in the common lay term, not in any technical sense. When I say “employee”, I mean he worked for him, he was paid by him.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Argumentative and vague. Object to the colloquy.
The Court: Counsel, I don't think you can ask this person to accept your definitions. You need to know how he defines various corporate terms.
Mr. Auchincloss: And I appreciate that. I'm just trying to clarify it.
The Court: And that be helpful to the jury, I'm sure, if they knew that too. But you -- just as an instruction from me --
Mr. Auchincloss: Sure.
The Court: -- you need to find out how he defines them, not tell him how to define them.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. So you would agree with me that Mr. Branca worked for Mr. Jackson, was paid for by Mr. Jackson, correct? He received money from Mr. Jackson for services, true?
David LeGrand: I believe the Ziffren law firm received compensation from Mr. Jackson for legal services, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you think Mr. Branca ever received any of those moneys for work that he performed?
David LeGrand: I believe Mr. Branca was paid by his firm, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And Mr. Jackson (sic) was one of the people he fired when he was cleaning house, true?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: As was Trudi Green?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So we went through the list. I don't need to go through it again. But wasn't it your desire, in preparing this investigative report or ordering this investigative report on Mr. Jackson's inner circle, to become a trusted associate of Mr. Jackson to the exclusion of the people that you were having investigated?
David LeGrand: I don't believe that was my intent. It was my intent to gain knowledge about the people who were involved. For example, with respect to Mr. Malnik, I had no intent to eliminate him from Mr. Jackson's circle. I had much greater concerns about Mr. Konitzer and Mr. Weizner than, say, for example, Mr. Malnik. But at the same time, I felt it appropriate, granted the history, to have greater knowledge about these people. You know, there's an aphorism, knowledge is power. And I felt it appropriate, and my colleagues, Mr. Joss, my partner, Mr. Gibson, concurred in those iterations.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; nonresponsive.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. He cut off the witness.
The Court: Sustained. I'll allow him to complete the answer. Do you want part of your answer read back, so you know where you were, or --
David LeGrand: Well, I'd just like to say that I and my partner called for those investigations. It was not simply my intent that was ruling. I was consistently, daily communicating with a number of lawyers who, as a group, were providing services to Mr. Jackson. And the decision to have those investigations done was not my unilateral decision.
Mr. Auchincloss: You said, “knowledge is power”. Wasn't this an effort to obtain more power?
David LeGrand: Absolutely, for Mr. Jackson to be empowered.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Let's -- let me ask you a couple of questions, a couple of background questions. I don't think I finished inquiring about people you may have talked to last night. Did you talk to Mr. Mesereau at all between the time that you took the stand today and the time that you left the stand yesterday?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure if -- he might have come in the room and left, you know, 30 seconds. I'm -- I'm sorry, I was upstairs in the room for a little bit. I don't remember. I don't have -- I didn't have any substantive conversations if I did see him at that time.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you met Mr. Mesereau before?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: On how many occasions?
David LeGrand: Three, I think. Maybe four.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you talk to him about your testimony in this case?
David LeGrand: We did not discuss my testimony in this case.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you talk to him about the facts of this case?
David LeGrand: I met with Mr. Mesereau, Mr. Cochran, a number of lawyers when I was delivering files and reviewed with them some of the contents of the boxes of files.
Mr. Auchincloss: When did you deliver those files?
David LeGrand: I'm sorry, I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you tell me --
David LeGrand: It was 2004.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. 2004. Can you tell me if it was in the beginning or towards the end of 2004?
David LeGrand: It was by -- I know it was by mid-September, by Labor Day weekend, that I had delivered the bulk of the files. There's been some bits and pieces that have just -- you know, either were delivered to me or were found, you know, in another file, because I had people in Reno working that were delivered later. But I'm pretty sure 90 percent of it was delivered by Labor Day of 2004.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you go through these files with Mr. Mesereau and Mr. Cochran in any fashion?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was an investigator present?
David LeGrand: I think so.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know Scott Ross?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was he present?
David LeGrand: I don't think so. But I'm really not sure. There was an investigator, but I thought it was somebody different. I don't know that I met Scott before arriving here.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Mason, perhaps?
David LeGrand: Mason. That name's familiar. I honestly didn't pay a lot of attention to the investigator.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. But there was an investigator there?
David LeGrand: Yeah.
Mr. Auchincloss: And have you talked to any investigators between the time you left the stand and the time you took the stand this morning?
David LeGrand: Yeah. Scott Ross took me back to my hotel last night, and then took me to drop me off at the mall so I could go get something to eat.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did you talk to Mr. Ross about anything to do with this case?
David LeGrand: We really didn't discuss the case. We were quite conscious that we -- or I was conscious that I didn't feel that was really appropriate.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So that's a “no”, you did not talk to Scott Ross about anything about this case?
David LeGrand: We didn't talk about this case.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. How about Mr. Castillo, did you talk to him about this case at all?
David LeGrand: Who?
Mr. Auchincloss: Jesus Castillo?
David LeGrand: I don't know who that is.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, all right. Now, you mentioned yesterday that you were aware of the “Home Movies” production, the “Michael Jackson Home Movies” production. True?
David LeGrand: Is that the program that involved Chris Tucker that was produced with FOX?
Mr. Auchincloss: I can't answer questions.
David LeGrand: I'm sorry, I'm not sure what --
Mr. Auchincloss: Weren't there -- I'm sorry, go ahead.
David LeGrand: I'm not sure what you mean by “Home Videos” productions.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, weren't there documents in your files regarding the “Home Movies” production involving Michael Jackson?
David LeGrand: I think so, yes. We had started -- we had started a negotiation with FOX for some additional production.
Mr. Auchincloss: And that production was also going to be run through Fire Mountain; that was the plan, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes, I think so.
Mr. Auchincloss: And was Mr. Schaffel going to work on that one as well; do you know?
David LeGrand: It was my goal to minimize the involvement of Mr. Schaffel as much as possible. And I do not know what I was -- I was terminated before that really got rolling. That's my recollection.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was your concern about Mr. Schaffel related to his connections in the adult sex videos industry?
David LeGrand: That was certainly part of the concern, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever express a concern to Mr. Jackson about Mr. Schaffel being associated with the rebuttal video or the “Take 2” video because of his background?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure that I had a direct conversation with Mr. Jackson about that or not. I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: And he was also one of the people that you had investigated, true?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, as far as money goes, profiting involving Mr. Jackson, isn't it fair to say that that was one of your goals here too, to make money by being associated with Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: My goal was to get paid for providing legal services.
Mr. Auchincloss: Weren't you very excited about becoming Michael Jackson's attorney?
David LeGrand: It was exciting.
Mr. Auchincloss: You perceived it to be a means to make a great deal of money, didn't you, Mr. LeGrand?
David LeGrand: Actually, I really didn't know what it was going to involve.
Mr. Auchincloss: But you had hopes that it would result in something very good for David LeGrand, true?
David LeGrand: I saw it as an opportunity to work in a unique and different environment that was interesting, that had great potential. It was -- it was exciting.
Mr. Auchincloss: Potential for wealth, true?
David LeGrand: I don't know about wealth. But certainly gain.
Mr. Auchincloss: You won't admit that it's -- that there was financial gain, that was one of your motives in becoming Michael Jackson's attorney? You disagree with that?
David LeGrand: All I wanted was to be paid for my hourly work.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you wanted to do a lot of hourly work for Michael Jackson, didn't you?
David LeGrand: As it turned out, I didn't have much choice. At least for a while.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would you answer my last question?
David LeGrand: The hours ended up being considerable.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you wanted to do a lot of hourly business with Michael Jackson, true? Can you answer that “yes” or “no” for me, sir?
David LeGrand: It's very hard to answer “yes” or “no”, because it really wasn't formulated in my mind that way.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. LeGrand, didn't you communicate to Mr. Konitzer that you were worried about getting paid for your services and being first in line for money?
David LeGrand: I was concerned about that, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And as early as February 11th, you had expressed that concern to Mr. Konitzer that you wanted to be paid?
David LeGrand: Yes. And when we say “I”, my firm.
Mr. Auchincloss: Your firm.
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: That's fair. And Mr. Konitzer asked you to calm down about that, didn't he?
David LeGrand: Yes, he did.
Mr. Auchincloss: And he said, “Don't worry, you'll be first in line”, true?
David LeGrand: Yes, he did.
Mr. Auchincloss: And he did that through e-mail, correct?
David LeGrand: He also said it to me.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you did a considerable amount of communication with Mr. Konitzer through e-mail, e-mails, true?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And if your file is complete, then all of those e-mails should be in it, shouldn't they?
David LeGrand: If you mean that a file comprising the totality of my work involving Mr. Jackson would include the e-mails to Ronald Konitzer, the answer is yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And my last question was, if your file that you turned over did not include e-mails such as that, it would not be complete, true?
David LeGrand: I -- I think that follows logically.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Did you remove any e-mails from your file prior to turning it over to Mr. Mesereau and Mr. Cochran?
David LeGrand: I don't remember removing any e-mails. I don't remember removing any documents from the files.
Mr. Auchincloss: You can conceive of it, though?
David LeGrand: No, I really didn't even personally prepare the files. Staff did. I -- I really wasn't directly involved in the file production process.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is (702) 222-2520 the direct line to your office at Hale Lane?
David LeGrand: Yes, it was.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you have a cell phone at that time?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And what was that number?
David LeGrand: (702) 218-6736.
Mr. Auchincloss: At some point in time, Mr. Geragos came into the picture. Do you remember when that was?
David LeGrand: First week of February 2003.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is that when you first met Mark Geragos?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Mr. Geragos is a criminal attorney?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And who introduced you to Mr. Geragos?
David LeGrand: I believe it was Ronald Konitzer who selected Mr. Geragos to be interviewed.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was there an interviewing process going on to find a criminal attorney at that time?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And can you explain why -- well, let me back up. Was it perceived that some criminal conduct might be alleged against Michael Jackson at that time, and therefore a criminal attorney should be retained?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; relevance.
The Court: Overruled.
David LeGrand: I'm sorry, what was the question?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll ask to have it read back.
The Court: I'll have the court reporter read it.
The Court Reporter: And can you explain why -- well, let me back up. Was it perceived that some criminal conduct might be alleged against Michael Jackson at that time, and therefore a criminal attorney should be retained?
David LeGrand: The press outcry was such that -- and the calls for investigation, calls for removal of his children were such that I and the other lawyers agreed it was appropriate to have a criminal attorney in California to address any possibilities of that kind.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So the answer to that question would be “yes”?
David LeGrand: I think I've answered it.
Mr. Auchincloss: My question is, so the answer to that question would be “yes”?
David LeGrand: Yes, we were concerned about possible criminal investigation resulting from the video, the Bashir video. There were people, you know, calling for investigation.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who -- well, let me phrase that differently. Who was in charge in terms of the legal advice provided to Mr. Jackson at that time? We're talking about the beginning of February. You? Mr. Geragos? Who was running the show there?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: What exactly was Mr. Geragos -- do you know what Mr. Geragos was tasked with at the time he was retained, what he was asked to do?
David LeGrand: I know that we asked him to attempt to ascertain if any criminal investigation had been commenced, and if there was any child custody removal efforts being commenced.
Mr. Auchincloss: That would be a family law matter, wouldn't it?
David LeGrand: I guess it's more family than criminal, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know who Brad Miller is?
David LeGrand: I believe he's an investigator that works or worked -- was engaged by Mr. Geragos's firm.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever meet Brad Miller?
David LeGrand: You know, I don't know. I might have.
Mr. Auchincloss: Where might you have met Brad Miller?
David LeGrand: Mr. Geragos's office.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you meet with Mr. Geragos in his office?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: More than once?
David LeGrand: I think so, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: How many times did you meet with Mr. Geragos, either in his office or elsewhere?
David LeGrand: Maybe four or five times.
Mr. Auchincloss: Four or five times?
David LeGrand: I think so.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever communicate with Mr. Geragos by e-mail?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know where those e-mails are?
David LeGrand: Not specifically, no.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you give those e-mails to Mr. Mesereau and Mr. Cochran?
David LeGrand: I think so.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever talk to Brad Miller on the phone?
David LeGrand: I don't know. It's possible.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know what Brad Miller was retained by Mr. Geragos to do?
David LeGrand: Not really. I know that it had to do with the Arvizos, but I really don't know in detail what Brad Miller was asked to do.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know who Asaf Vilchic is?
David LeGrand: Who?
Mr. Auchincloss: Asaf Vilchic?
David LeGrand: I don't think I've heard that name before.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to have trouble with this next one. Can you tell me if you've heard of the name Johnny Majetich, something of that nature?
David LeGrand: That name does not ring any bells, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you ever heard of a private investigator referred to as “Johnny in the Sky”?
David LeGrand: No, sir. I don't think so. It's the sort of thing one might remember, but I don't have a recollection of that one.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Now, I want to come back to this rebuttal film or the “Take 2” video. You participated in getting or I should say preparing releases for the entire Arvizo family, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And who asked you to do that? Maybe I'm making an assumption there. Did you do that on your own or did somebody else ask you to do it?
David LeGrand: I don't really know. I know it needed to be done, but I'm not sure whether it was, you know, Lachman Productions, Marc Schaffel, or who it was. The consents and releases started with Debbie Rowe, and then we just started thinking, “Oh, well, we need releases for everybody that might be in this video”. I prepared a release for Hamid as well.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. The one for Hamid, was that under a Brad Lachman letterhead; do you know?
David LeGrand: I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. But you knew that the plan was to have the Arvizo family filmed for the “Take 2” video, correct?
David LeGrand: I knew there was a desire to have some footage of the Arvizo family for possible inclusion in the “Take 2” video, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And that was the reason why these consent forms were prepared?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you sent those consent forms to Ann Gabriel, true?
David LeGrand: I don't know. I might have.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you send a consent form to Ann Gabriel and ask her to put “Gabriel Media” on the top of it?
David LeGrand: I don't -- I don't remember. It's possible, but I don't remember that.
Mr. Auchincloss: If it's possible, can you tell me why that would have happened?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; unintelligible.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, you admit it's possible.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; calls for speculation.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes?
David LeGrand: I really can't say. I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Can you tell me if you can envision a reason why you would send a consent form to Ann Gabriel and ask her to put “Gabriel Media” on the top of it?
David LeGrand: I really don't know today. We were moving quick on a lot of things, and it, you know, if it happened, may have seemed like a good idea at the time, but I really don't know why in retrospect. It could have been that I was trying to give Ann, you know, a bit of a role. It --
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you send consent forms to Neverland Valley Ranch by way of fax for the Arvizo family?
David LeGrand: I think so, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: If I may approach, Your Honor.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. LeGrand, I show you People's Exhibit No. 263. It appears to be one, two, three -- five, six, seven, eight -- nine separate pages. Would you look at that for me, please, and identify it if you can.
David LeGrand: This appears to be a fax from Hale Lane to Joe Marcus at Neverland Valley Ranch containing appearance consents and releases for various members of the Arvizo family.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you prepare those consent and release forms?
David LeGrand: I think my associate, Ann-Marie Levy, did.
Mr. Auchincloss: At your direction?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is that the consent and release form that you wrote or prepared?
David LeGrand: Well, I directed the preparation. It appears -- the language looks familiar.
Mr. Auchincloss: Your Honor, at this time I'd move into evidence People's Exhibit 263. I'll show it to counsel.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. LeGrand, at the top of those consent and release forms is the logo for MJJ Productions, correct?
David LeGrand: On some of them, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you place that logo there? Did you direct, I should say, the placement of that logo at the top of those appearance consent and release forms?
David LeGrand: I don't believe I did. I have no recollection of so instructing.
Mr. Auchincloss: And then at the back, a couple of pages, that logo appears to have been removed. Did you direct that appearance consent and release forms for the Arvizos be provided without the MJJ Productions logo?
David LeGrand: I don't recall instructing that they be presented in one form or the other.
Mr. Auchincloss: If your file was complete, Mr. LeGrand, then it should have had that fax and those releases in it, true?
David LeGrand: If the files of my firm were complete, it should be in there.
Mr. Auchincloss: And if it wasn't in your file, can you explain that?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; calls for speculation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: No, I can't explain it. That portion of the file was kept by Ann-Marie Levy. She was subsequently -- her services at my firm were later terminated.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is there any reason why Ann-Marie Levy would go through the files and remove those documents, as far as you know?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you also send the same consent forms to Hamid Moslehi?
David LeGrand: I don't know. I'm pretty sure that my firm sent appearance and consent forms to Hamid Moslehi, but I don't know exactly when or if they were absolutely identical. But -- because I'm not sure we knew where the Arvizos were in order to get the documents executed, and since Hamid was supposed to do the videography, it would not surprise me that we sent them to Hamid.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, that's a good point. They were different, weren't they? They weren't the same as the ones you sent to Neverland, correct?
David LeGrand: I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: But you agree that your associate sent those to Hamid at your direction?
David LeGrand: I don't recall making that instruction today.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would you agree that your associate would not send those to Hamid on her own without some direction from you?
David LeGrand: I -- it's certainly possible that she would have. I mean, she can have been instructed by Mr. Konitzer directly to do so. It's possible she would have sent them or that she would have interpreted my instruction to prepare and get the consents out as, you know, a broad mandate.
The Court: Let's take a break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'd like to show you a few documents. We're in the home stretch here, so I'll be finished in a short period. If I may approach, Your Honor.
The Court: You may.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. First of all, Mr. LeGrand, I show you People's Exhibit No. 899. Can you identify that for me, please?
David LeGrand: Yes. This is a letter I prepared for Mr. Jackson's signature directed to Barry Siegel.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And that was a letter turning over the financial reins to you for Mr. Jackson's concerns involving Provident Financial Management; is that correct?
David LeGrand: I believe the document speaks for itself. It states in one relevant paragraph that, “Mr. LeGrand is engaging a new management company to serve my interests, and you are specifically authorized and instructed to transfer any available funds you are holding on my behalf or for any of my businesses to such management company or Mr. LeGrand's trust account pursuant to Mr. LeGrand and Miss Brandt's instructions”.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Is that Michael Jackson's signature at the bottom of that document?
David LeGrand: Yes, it is.
Mr. Auchincloss: Move to admit People's Exhibit No. 899 into evidence.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Showing you the People's Exhibit -- the 400 series. Didn't mean to scare you. Okay. Beginning with Exhibit No. 406, it appears to be a Hale Lane fax transmittal sheet on the front page. Can you identify that document for me, please?
David LeGrand: This appears to be the transmittal between myself and Marisa Fermin of the final agreement for the “Take 2”.
Mr. Auchincloss: And that agreement calls for Fire Mountain to receive three million dollars on behalf of Mr. Jackson; is that correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did you send that document to Miss Fermin at FOX?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Move to admit People's Exhibit 406 into evidence at this time.
Mr. Mesereau: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Auchincloss: Showing you People's Exhibit 412, can you identify that for me, please?
David LeGrand: This appears to be a transmittal from Hale Lane to Hamid Moslehi containing some appearance consents and a -- yeah. Containing appearance consents and an additional consent for MJJ Productions for the Michael Jackson special.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you send that fax transmittal with accompanying documents to Hamid at (818) 224-4664 on -- I'm sorry -- February 10th, 2003?
David LeGrand: Based on these documents, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And the first document that appears in that group after the fax sheet is entitled “Gabriel Media, Incorporated. Appearance Consent and Release”. Did you send that document to Hamid Moslehi?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you explain to me why the document is entitled “Gabriel Media, Incorporated”?
David LeGrand: Not today, no. I don't remember. And the second document has that whited out, and it has a --
Mr. Auchincloss: There's no question pending.
David LeGrand: Oh. Sorry.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm just asking about the first document.
David LeGrand: No. I don't know why.
Mr. Auchincloss: But you admit that you did send that to Mr. Moslehi?
David LeGrand: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Gabriel Media had nothing to do with this production, did they?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure I can say “nothing” to do with this production. At the time, I believe Miss Gabriel was still a consultant on PR-related matters.
Mr. Auchincloss: But can you -- go ahead.
David LeGrand: I really don't remember today why this document had her company's title on it.
Mr. Auchincloss: There's no reason for that, is there?
David LeGrand: I -- I don't know of the reason for it. I don't remember. I'm sure there was at the time, but I don't remember it today.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was the reason “Gabriel Media, Incorporated” appears on that appearance consent and release form intended to distance you and Michael Jackson from these consent and release forms?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Argumentative; no foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: I don't remember what the intent was.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Let's move on.
The Court: I want to ask a question. The Exhibit 406, previously I admitted a portion and not admitted a portion, and then he offered it a minute ago and there was no objection. But I just wanted to bring your attention to my previous ruling.
Mr. Sanger: Can we have just a moment?
The Court: Yes. (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, I thought they were complete documents, the ones I saw. Could we hold off a ruling and discuss them?
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
The Court: All right. I'll hold off on that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Showing you page seven of Exhibit No. 413, it also appears to be a Hale Lane facsimile transmittal sheet. Can you identify that for me, please?
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, I'm sorry, could we just have that back? Page seven of what exhibit?
The Court: 4-1-3.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
David LeGrand: This is a fax from Hale Lane to Vincent at MJJ Productions of some model releases for the Arvizos; for Gavin, Star, and Janet.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you send a fax transmittal to -- and we should say, for the record, that you're looking through -- you've removed the document from its sleeve and there appears to be several appearance and consent release forms that are paper-clipped together.
David LeGrand: I'm sorry, these are different documents with different dates. The paper-clipped transmittal of February 17th appears to be substantially the same as the fax transmittal that we identified earlier to Neverland.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
David LeGrand: Whereas these documents that are attached -- that are in this folder that I just referenced are dated February 21. And I don't know when they were sent or how.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Let's talk about that. And why don't we keep this out for a moment.
David LeGrand: Oh. Sure.
Mr. Auchincloss: The first document is dated February 17th, 2003, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And it indicates a number of pages with cover of nine; is that true?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: But there's only one, two, three, four, five -- six pages paper-clipped together with this.
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Now, did you direct that this document, either with or without nine pages, was to be sent to Vincent at MJJ Productions at (818) 224-4664 on February 17th, 2003?
David LeGrand: Yes, I did so direct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who is Vincent?
David LeGrand: I think his name is Vincent Amen.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you ever talked to him?
David LeGrand: I think so, but I don't have a specific recollection of talking to him.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you ever met Mr. Amen?
David LeGrand: I don't recall.
Mr. Auchincloss: And was your intent to send those forms to Mr. Amen at that number so that he could get the Arvizos to sign consent and release forms for the “Take 2” video?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, moving on to the next form, page, I guess what we would consider page eight of that same exhibit number, 403. Let me double-check that. 413, I'm sorry. Calling your attention to page eight, is the language of that model release language that you cleared for use in that consent form?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you have a discussion with Vincent Amen at 12 -- looks like 12:57 a.m. in the early morning hours of February 21, '03?
David LeGrand: I think so. I just don't remember if it was Vincent Amen. But I had -- I think I mentioned in my testimony yesterday that I had one evening a -- late in the evening I had a conversation about the Arvizo releases.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. I'll come back to that in a moment. I'm showing you People's Exhibit 807. Have you ever seen that exhibit before?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: What is it, please?
David LeGrand: This is a document authorizing Theodore Goddard to file, it says, “...this complaint on behalf of my son Gavin Arvizo”.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was that a document that you had in your file at Hale Lane for Michael Jackson?
David LeGrand: I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: Where have you seen that document before?
David LeGrand: It was filed with the -- well, I don't know. I'm sorry, let me back up. It was submitted to the law firm in the UK of Theodore Goddard as support for their authorization to file the complaint I referenced with the British Broadcasting Standards Board.
Mr. Auchincloss: Based on your training and experience, does that document look like it was prepared by an attorney?
David LeGrand: Well, it looks like it was prepared by somebody who had legal knowledge.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is that the type of document you would prepare for a release of that nature?
David LeGrand: I don't know if I prepared this or not. I remember discussing this matter, and I remember talking to, I believe it's Ronald Konitzer, who was in Florida at the time, regarding the need to have the authorization for the Broadcasting Standards Board complaint.
Mr. Auchincloss: Are you aware that Janet Arvizo's attorney complained that that document was forged around her signature?
David LeGrand: Yes, I am aware that Mr. Dickerman made that statement.
Mr. Auchincloss: And were you present when this document was signed?
David LeGrand: I don't believe so, no.
Mr. Auchincloss: And where did you get this document from, or a copy of it from?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure. I believe Mr. Konitzer delivered this document to me. But I -- but I'm not sure.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm showing you People's Exhibit 811. It appears to be four pages, if you'd leaf through it. Have you ever seen Exhibit 811 before?
David LeGrand: Well, Exhibit 811 is a signed version of these other documents that are -- have the February 21, '03, date on them that were faxed under the -- well, I'm not sure they were faxed or not under that. But anyway, yes, I've seen these before, but I don't remember particularly seeing the signed ones.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Did you have copies of these signed model releases in your file for Michael Jackson?
David LeGrand: I don't know if I did or didn't. I really -- Ann-Marie was responsible for the release forms.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Going back to the consent forms that were signed ultimately by the Arvizos, the first consent forms were sent by you to Neverland Valley Ranch to have the Arvizos sign them, correct? That was the first time that you attempted to get consent forms signed by the Arvizos, true?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And they didn't sign them, did they?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were you informed of why the Arvizos did not sign those consent forms to be sent to Neverland Valley Ranch?
David LeGrand: The conversation I had, which -- based on what you've presented, I believe --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm sorry. That's a “yes” or “no” question first.
David LeGrand: I'm sorry, what was the question?
Mr. Auchincloss: I just want to know if you were informed of why those consent forms were not signed.
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who did you receive that information from?
David LeGrand: Based on what you've just reviewed with me, I think it was Vincent Amen.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And what did Vincent Amen tell you about that? Well, let me back up. Did Vincent Amen tell you that the Arvizos did not want to sign those forms?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: The next forms you sent were to Hamid Moslehi, identical forms, except for some minor changes. I think the “MJJ Productions” is removed. Is that fair to say?
David LeGrand: The body of the consents are the same. I'm not sure -- we've looked at a number of these now. I'm not sure -- did we send -- I'm not sure whether the ones that went to Hamid were particularly for the Arvizos or whether they were general forms.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would you like to see them again?
David LeGrand: Yeah, if I could. I'm getting a little confused.
Mr. Auchincloss: Again, I'm just showing you People's Exhibit 412.
David LeGrand: Yeah, these do not have the names of individual people typed in to the body of the document, so they are similar in form and substance, but they are different.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And was it your intent to have Hamid obtain signatures from the Arvizo family on those forms?
David LeGrand: I don't recall that I had any specific intent with respect to the Arvizos in transmitting those to Hamid. It was certainly my intent to have Hamid further assure that we had consents from anybody appearing in the video.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And then is the exhibit that I showed you marked as -- let me check one more thing. I'm sorry.
David LeGrand: I'm sorry, I have not been well.
Mr. Auchincloss: This is the exhibit that was removed from the sleeve. I'll put it back in. That will necessitate me finding the missing sleeve. Okay. Here it is. Well, I'll ask my friend Mr. Zonen to find the sleeve for that.
Mr. Auchincloss: The exhibit that was to Vincent at MJJ Productions dated February 17th, 2003, that one was specifically sent to have the Arvizos sign, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes. The body of the document included names of the individual members of the Arvizo family.
Mr. Auchincloss: And the Arvizos did not sign those forms either, did they?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: And in the early morning hours, you received a phone call several days later that the Arvizos were still refusing to sign these consent forms, did you not?
David LeGrand: Correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: From whom?
David LeGrand: Again, based on what you've presented, I believe it was Vincent Amen.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you revised the release form to the state that we find in People's Exhibit 811, which has signatures on it; is that correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. LeGrand, did you conceal any documents from your files on Michael Jackson?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; relevance.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: I don't think so.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you tell me where the e-mails are for that file?
David LeGrand: As far as I know, they're in the Hale Lane computer system. And to the best of my recollection, there was a CD-rom prepared and delivered to the Katten Muchin law firm.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you tell me where your personal notes are regarding your communications with Michael Jackson regarding that period of time of representation for Mr. Jackson that should be in that file?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Argumentative; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you tell me where your personal notes of Michael Jackson -- involving communications with Michael Jackson during this period of time, early part of 2003, can you tell me where those are?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: I'm not sure today.
Mr. Auchincloss: You stated that you thought the Martin Bashir film was a hatchet job. Did you ever say in an e-mail that, “Ronald had nothing to do with this. The man did the interview himself. Not good”? Did you ever say that?
David LeGrand: I don't remember that. It's certainly possible.
Mr. Auchincloss: If I show you a copy of that e-mail, would that refresh your recollection?
David LeGrand: It might.
Mr. Auchincloss: May I approach?
David LeGrand: Yeah, I did say that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. LeGrand, concerning your files in this case, did you ever indicate that you would, “Walk away as soon as I plug a few document holes”?
David LeGrand: I may have. There were some corporate paperwork pieces that needed to get finished that I had -- you know, that I had the knowledge of that we just hadn't had time to finish everything that needed -- that should have been done, in my opinion, so I wanted to complete some of that paperwork.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever say, “I am cleaning up documents over the next few days which should help build a strong position for defending our actions if they ever need to be defended”?
David LeGrand: Could be. Again, there were resolutions, there was some corporate paperwork that was no way a fabrication that would reflect the events as they occurred that, you know, should have been done.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did “cleaning up the documents” in this case include destruction of documents, Mr. LeGrand?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: I have no further questions.
The Court: Mr. Mesereau?
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. LeGrand, do you have the exhibit book in front of you that you had yesterday?
David LeGrand: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor, and --
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh. Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. LeGrand, isn't it true the District Attorney's Office never subpoenaed documents from you?
David LeGrand: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Isn't it true that Prosecutor Auchincloss never once called you and asked you to give him any documents in your files?
David LeGrand: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Isn't it true that Prosecutor Sneddon never called you at any time and said, “Could we please have your files?”
David LeGrand: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Isn't it true Prosecutor Zonen never called you at any time and said, “Mr. LeGrand, could we just take a look at your files?”
David LeGrand: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: Isn't it true that no representative of the Santa Barbara sheriffs ever called your office and said, “Mr. LeGrand, please give us your e-mails”?
David LeGrand: That is correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Nobody associated with the prosecution has ever called you or your firm and said, “Please let us see your files”, right?
David LeGrand: That's true.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, Mr. LeGrand, the prosecutor asked you some questions about you and your partners' efforts to investigate people who were around Michael Jackson, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: And he specifically asked you questions about an attorney named John Branca, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: At the time you began an investigation into some of the people around Mr. Jackson that you were concerned about, one of the people you investigated was Mr. Branca, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge at the time, Mr. Branca had been an attorney in Los Angeles doing music work for Mr. Jackson, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You yourself, as you've indicated yesterday, were not a specialist in music law, right?
David LeGrand: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Branca purportedly was, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you answered some questions yesterday about the Sony/ATV catalog. Remember that?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And the Sony/ATV catalog was owned 50/50 by Sony and Michael Jackson, correct?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And at times Mr. Jackson and Sony would have business discussions about their respective ownership interests in the catalog, right?
David LeGrand: I was never privy to those discussions. It would certainly seem that they would occur, but I don't have actual knowledge of that.
Mr. Mesereau: But you were aware that negotiations went on from time to time between representatives of Michael Jackson and representatives of Sony about their respective interests in that music catalog, right?
David LeGrand: Well, absolutely, yes, because I obtained files from the Ziffren law firm evidencing the Ziffren law firm and Mr. Branca's representing Mr. Jackson in just such discussions over a period of time.
Mr. Mesereau: And just to clarify, Mr. Branca was a partner at the Ziffren law firm in Los Angeles, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: That firm also represented Sony, correct?
David LeGrand: I believe the answer is correct. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were concerned that Mr. Branca and that law firm might not be representing Mr. Jackson's interests properly because of their connection to Sony, correct?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Didn't you investigate Mr. Branca because you were concerned that he and Sony had set up an offshore account to funnel money to so they could defraud Michael Jackson?
Mr. Auchincloss: Same objection.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Why did you investigate Mr. Branca?
David LeGrand: I requested -- well, let me back up. After consultation with my partner, Mr. Gibson, and discussion with I believe Mr. Joss at Paul Hastings, Mr. Gibson and I instructed the firm Interfor to investigate Mr. Branca, because Mr. Konitzer had indicated in several conversations that he was very concerned about Mr. Branca and that Mr. Jackson had expressed concern about Mr. Branca's loyalty. Also, there was -- Mr. Schaffel related information that also was negative of Mr. Branca. So we made collectively the decision to ask Interfor to further the background investigation, to conduct investigation into Mr. Branca.
Mr. Mesereau: But at the time, Konitzer didn't know that you were also investigating him, right?
David LeGrand: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: At the time, Schaffel didn't know you were also investigating Schaffel, right?
David LeGrand: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: At the time, Weizner didn't know you were also investigating Weizner, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Leading; foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
David LeGrand: That's correct. We did not inform them of the scope of -- the full scope of Interfor's actions at our request.
Mr. Mesereau: And you also investigated somebody named Tommy Motolla, correct?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure that's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall asking Interfor to do some investigation into an offshore bank account?
David LeGrand: It's kind of the other way around. We asked Interfor to investigate Mr. Branca. They indicated to us that --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object based on hearsay.
Mr. Mesereau: State of mind, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: What was your state of mind when you investigated the possibility that an offshore account had been formed by various people to defraud Michael Jackson?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object as leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: What was your state of mind when you investigated the formation of an offshore bank account?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; assumes facts.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you investigate the existence of an offshore bank account?
David LeGrand: We requested Interfor to look into that possibility, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Why?
David LeGrand: Because there was a --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object based on hearsay.
Mr. Mesereau: State of mind.
The Court: The objection is overruled. You may complete your answer.
David LeGrand: Because we had -- we, the lawyers, had been given information from a source that appeared to have some credibility that such an account existed.
Mr. Mesereau: And why did you want to investigate that account?
David LeGrand: Be -- well, to me, that's kind of obvious. But if, in fact, there was an offshore account in which money was being deposited for the benefit of Mr. Branca or others, that would indicate very serious violations of Mr. Branca's responsibilities to Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you think at one point that Sony was paying Mr. Branca money to sell out Mr. Jackson?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Improper opinion; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did your investigation involve anyone you thought was involved in transferring money to that bank account?
David LeGrand: The best way I can answer that is to say we asked the investigators to do as complete a job as they could with the financial resources we had available for them. And I didn't delineate who they should or shouldn't look into with respect to such an account.
Mr. Mesereau: But at your direction, they looked into the existence of that account, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And it was your direction that they look into that account because you were concerned that Michael Jackson's attorney and Sony were putting money in that account so Mr. Jackson's lawyer would essentially sell him out, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Leading; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained; foundation.
Mr. Mesereau: Where was the offshore account, if you know?
David LeGrand: I'm sorry, I don't recall. I believe it was in the Caribbean.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did your investigation get far enough to establish that, in fact, this lawyer was a signatory on that account?
David LeGrand: I don't believe so, no.
Mr. Mesereau: But the investigation did indicate he was somehow involved in the account, correct?
David LeGrand: The investigator's report so indicated.
Mr. Mesereau: And the investigator's report indicated it appeared that Sony was involved in that account, right?
David LeGrand: The investigator's report indicated that Sony had transferred money to the account.
Mr. Mesereau: Sony had transferred money to that account for the benefit of Mr. Jackson's lawyer, right?
David LeGrand: That's what was indicated in the report. It -- I need to be very clear here that that was not verified, with a reasonable degree of certainty, that I would have acted upon that information. And Mr. Branca's a fine lawyer. And, you know, there is no -- I have no proof of these statements.
Mr. Mesereau: You investigated Mr. Branca because, in your words, you thought he was involved in self-dealing, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Improper opinion; no foundation; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
David LeGrand: Again, you know, I want to be clear. I consulted with my partner and, you know, other lawyers, and we collectively made a decision to -- that it was prudent to have our investigator look into the possibility of such actions being taken by Mr. Branca.
Mr. Mesereau: You were concerned that all of the individuals you investigated were involved in self-dealing, right?
David LeGrand: No. That's not right. For example, I did not suspect Mr. Malnik of self-dealing in any way.
Mr. Mesereau: Then why did you have an entirely separate and more comprehensive investigation done of Mr. Malnik?
David LeGrand: I had done an Internet search on Mr. Malnik before I met him. That Internet search indicated that he had ties to organized crime; that he was rumored to be the, you know, quote, heir of Meyer Lansky. There were, you know, sufficient clouds in the public record of Mr. Malnik's past that, again, we, the lawyers, made a collective decision that it was prudent to further investigate Mr. Malnik. We did not know who he was. And he was becoming a more and more powerful figure in Michael Jackson's life.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you at any point determine that Malnik had ties with Sony?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Foundation; improper opinion; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether or not Mr. Malnik has ever had a position with the Sony corporation?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Same objection. Add relevancy.
The Court: Relevancy, sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: When you did your investigation, you and your partner, both former prosecutors, were you concerned about Mr. Malnik's relationship with Sony?
Mr. Auchincloss: Same objection.
The Court: Overruled.
David LeGrand: I really don't recall that we had any concern over Mr. Malnik's relationship with Sony. In fact, I'm not aware that he had a significant relationship with Sony. Our concern about Mr. Malnik was simply based upon the, you know, public records indicating these, you know, vague relationships to criminal figures. And those -- you know, those are all long in the past, but still, you know, in the public domain.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were concerned that all of these characters were trying to steal money and take advantage of Michael Jackson, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Leading; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you and Prosecutor Auchincloss ever had a discussion about this investigation that you and your partner began?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Has Mr. Auchincloss ever tried to approach you to find out why you were investigating all of these people while you were Mr. Jackson's lawyer?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Isn't it true that you were trying to investigate offshore accounts owned by Branca and someone named Tommy Motolla?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who was Tommy Motolla?
David LeGrand: He was a very powerful figure in the record industry at one time. I believe he was the president of the Sony Entertainment Division in the U.S. I'm not sure of his exact title or position.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you concerned that Tommy Motolla and Mr. Jackson's lawyer, John Branca, were working together to defraud Michael Jackson?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Relevancy; assumes facts; leading.
The Court: You may answer.
David LeGrand: Based on the suspicions that were expressed to me and my partner, we asked Interfor to look into these rumors.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you had known Konitzer for how many years at that point?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure. Six, seven, eight maybe.
Mr. Mesereau: But you had never investigated Konitzer before you started this investigation, right?
David LeGrand: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: Even though you knew Konitzer all those years, you had never hired an investigative firm to check out his background, correct?
David LeGrand: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You were concerned that Konitzer was engaged in self-dealing at the expense of Michael Jackson, true?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Relevancy; improper opinion.
Mr. Mesereau: I think the prosecutor's gone through all this, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection is overruled.
David LeGrand: My answer is yes, I was concerned.
Mr. Mesereau: You were also concerned that Dieter Weizner was engaging in self-dealing at the expense of Michael Jackson, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You were -- you asked for an investigation into Konitzer's background in Canada, right?
David LeGrand: Canada and Germany, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you also asked for an investigation into Weizner's background in Germany, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever met Tommy Motolla?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever spoken to him?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did Al Malnik have any relationship with Tommy Motolla?
David LeGrand: Not to my knowledge.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever talk to him about that?
David LeGrand: I don't believe I ever talked to Al about whether or not he knew or had met Tommy Motolla.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your belief when you started this investigation that Al Malnik, Tommy Motolla, John Branca and people at Sony were trying to find a way to get Mr. Jackson's interest in that music catalog?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Argumentative; leading; relevancy.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: I'm not sure that I would include Al Malnik in that group, but I certainly was concerned that Branca and Motolla, in particular, had set the stage, so to speak, for Sony to be able to obtain Michael's interest in the Sony/ATV joint venture.
Mr. Mesereau: And as a former prosecutor and as Michael Jackson's attorney, you thought the ethical and professional thing for you and your law firm to do was to investigate these people to protect Mr. Jackson as best you could, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object to the prefatory remarks as argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: The investigation was one of the tools we employed to try to be effective in representing our client's interest.
Mr. Mesereau: In response to Prosecutor Auchincloss's questions, you said you wanted -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. In response to Prosecutor Auchincloss's questions about why you started this investigation, you said you wanted Michael Jackson to be empowered. Do you remember that?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you mean by the word “empowered”?
David LeGrand: I wanted him to have a higher degree of detail and knowledge about the people who were becoming influential in his business and financial affairs, so that, having that knowledge, he could then make better decisions about those people and the positions they would occupy in his life.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you feel that Michael Jackson had made poor decisions in trusting certain people in his life?
David LeGrand: No disrespect intended to Mr. Jackson, but it's -- it was apparent from any review of the lawsuits against him and some of his well-publicized history that he's been taken -- you know, that people have attempted to gain significantly from being associated with him.
Mr. Mesereau: And you felt, looking at his history, that he'd been taken advantage of repeatedly, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Leading; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you make a determination whether or not Mr. Jackson had been taken advantage of?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; improper opinion.
The Court: Relevancy; sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you feel that one of your responsibilities as Mr. Jackson's new attorney was to try and stop people from taking advantage of him?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have concerns that all of the people that you were investigating were taking advantage of Michael Jackson?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Leading; relevance.
The Court: Asked and answered.
Mr. Auchincloss: Asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know that Mark Geragos was investigating the Arvizos?
David LeGrand: I don't know. I don't remember -- as I sit here today, I don't remember specifically that I knew he was investigating them. I'm just not sure about that. I'm sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry. Did I stop you?
David LeGrand: No. I just -- I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, Prosecutor Auchincloss asked you if you had ever talked to an investigator named Brad Miller, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And I believe you thought you might have, but you weren't sure; is that right?
David LeGrand: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point, you were one of the lawyers responsible for hiring Mark Geragos, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever discussing with Mark Geragos his decision to investigate the Arvizos' background in extortion and fraud?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Argumentative; assumes facts; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever talk with Mark Geragos about what he learned about the J.C. Penney suit filed by the Arvizos?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Hearsay; exceeds the scope.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: When you were communicating with Mr. Geragos, did you ever discuss, you and he, a J.C. Penney suit, that you recall?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, Prosecutor Auchincloss asked you some questions yesterday about Janet Arvizo turning down an offer of $25,000 from you. Do you remember that?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And at the point in time when you offered $25,000 to Janet Arvizo, Janet Arvizo was being represented in England by the same law firm that represented Michael Jackson, right?
David LeGrand: With respect to the British broadcasting administrative complaint process, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: If you know, who was paying Janet Arvizo's legal fees in that action?
David LeGrand: Ultimately Mr. Jackson. I'm not sure which exactly the source of funds was. But ultimately Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have any idea how much money Mr. Jackson spent paying Janet Arvizo's legal fees in England?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; relevancy.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: When you discussed the possibility of giving Janet Arvizo $25,000, you were talking to her new lawyer named Bill Dickerman, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When you spoke to Bill Dickerman, did you know that he had a profit-sharing arrangement with an attorney named Larry Feldman?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Relevancy; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: If Janet Arvizo was going to file a lawsuit against Michael Jackson with Attorneys Larry Feldman and Bill Dickerman, it wouldn't make sense to be joined with him in a suit in England, would it?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when did you talk to Attorney Bill Dickerman about your offer of $25,000 to Janet Arvizo?
David LeGrand: As I think I said yesterday, it was I think spring of '04. And whether that was March, April, May or June, I'm not sure. Mr. Dickerman and I corresponded over a period of, I'm not sure whether it was two weeks or six weeks. But there was a little period of time. And I'm pretty sure it was late spring of '04.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the name Attorney Larry Feldman ever pop up in your discussions with Bill Dickerman?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Jamie Masada?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Stan Katz?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Beyond the scope; relevancy.
Mr. Mesereau: I believe counsel explored this issue, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection is sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Attorney Dickerman communicated to you his desire that Mrs. Arvizo not be represented by any of Michael Jackson's attorneys, right?
David LeGrand: Not exactly. What he communicated was that he wanted the -- the representation with respect to the British Standards Board complaint to be terminated and he wanted the complaint withdrawn.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was a complaint that Mr. Jackson and Mrs. Arvizo had filed complaining about Mr. Bashir's actions and tactics, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Overruled.
David LeGrand: Originally, as I said yesterday, there was one complaint filed on behalf of the Jacksons and the Arvizos. The Standards Board subsequently instructed the lawyers in the UK that the Arvizo complaint was a separate and distinct matter and needed to be the subject of its own complaint. So that's -- I mean, so there were two separate complaints. Ultimately one for the Arvizos and one for Mr. Jackson. And those complaints alleged that Granada and Martin Bashir, as Granada's agent, had violated various aspects of the British broadcasting standards with respect to their actions in the video presented and produced by Granada.
Mr. Mesereau: At any point, did you feel that you were a lawyer for Janet Arvizo?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Mesereau: At any point, did you feel you were giving any legal advice to Janet Arvizo?
David LeGrand: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, Prosecutor Auchincloss showed you a couple of model release forms that you had prepared, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you prepared those release forms, it was your understanding that Ms. Arvizo and her family would sign them authorizing the family to be filmed in the “Take 2” production, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Leading; assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Why did you prepare model releases to be signed by the Arvizos?
David LeGrand: Because we -- because there could not be a broadcast use of any video containing their images without a release.
Mr. Mesereau: And at some point, did you learn that Janet Arvizo was bargaining for better terms in those releases?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Hearsay; assumes facts not in evidence; and leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You indicated in response to Prosecutor Auchincloss's questions that there was a point in time where Janet Arvizo didn't want to sign the release you had drafted, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And I believe you said that that refusal to sign was communicated to you by Vincent Amen, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And I believe you said that you then redrafted a release for Janet Arvizo to sign, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Why did you redraft that release for Janet Arvizo to sign?
David LeGrand: Because I needed -- because it had to be in a simpler, more readable, user-friendly, plain-English format, based on what had been presented to me as the concerns and reservations about executing the more formal release that I think is two big paragraphs of like, you know, one sentence per paragraph. It's very legalese, so to speak, and my understanding was that the Arvizos would sign releases if they were drafted in a fashion that were understandable by them.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that that was Janet Arvizo's request?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who communicated that request to you?
David LeGrand: I think it was Vincent Amen.
Mr. Mesereau: How many drafts did that release go through before you learned that Janet had signed it?
David LeGrand: I think it was just the one revision process. We went from the more complex document that I described that we looked at in the exhibits earlier to a more simpler document I think titled “Model Release”, and it's much simpler, less elegant.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ever learn whether or not the Arvizos had even appeared in the “Take 2” documentary?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure that they did, to tell you the truth. I mean, I did watch it once, but that was two years ago, and I don't remember whether they're in it or not.
Mr. Mesereau: Isn't it true, Mr. LeGrand, that documentary appeared on television, was a great success, and they weren't even in it?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained. Counsel? I have this picture of this lawyer upstairs walking back and forth, pulling his hairs out of his head, wondering why the heck I ordered him up here today under threat of warrant while Mr. Mesereau goes on and on. What's wrong with that picture?
Mr. Mesereau: It's pretty accurate, I think, Your Honor.
The Court: Can we get on with it?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. Yes, I will. Okay. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Prosecutor -- Prosecutor Auchincloss --
The Court: Thank you for laughing. That relieves some tension here.
Mr. Mesereau: Prosecutor Auchincloss asked you a question yesterday about Mr. Jackson's music career. Do you remember that?
David LeGrand: Not precisely, no, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, didn't he say something about you were all working on a “Take 2” documentary because you were trying to shore up a falling music career for Michael Jackson?
David LeGrand: I think there was a question that had that implicit in it. But I can't recall the details of the question. It's been quite a few questions in the last day.
Mr. Mesereau: In the Bashir documentary, do you remember Mr. Jackson received a BAMBI award?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; relevancy.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: In fact, in that documentary Bashir talks about Michael Jackson as the greatest musical artist of all time, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; relevancy.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You indicated you spoke to representatives of the Bank of America about the Fire Mountain LLC, right?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And it was your understanding they had no objection to money from the “Take 2” documentary being placed in the Fire Mountain account, correct?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Hearsay; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: I had a conversation, I'm not sure which individual at Bank of America. There were two or three that I spoke with. And after discussing with them the overall circumstances, the uses in paying the attorneys and funding the litigation in the UK and such, they indicated that they would not view that as a default under the loan, and to the best of my knowledge, they subsequently extended the loan in negotiations with Mr. Malnik.
Mr. Mesereau: And certainly Mr. Jackson was not working with you in any effort to defraud Bank of America, right?
David LeGrand: That's right.
Mr. Mesereau: I have no further questions, Your Honor.
Mr. Auchincloss: Just a few. I'll be brief.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. LeGrand, you spoke to Attorney Finkelstein at least two times. You testified to that yesterday, correct?
David LeGrand: I think that's right.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Mr. Finkelstein was an attorney for Mr. Jackson, true?
David LeGrand: Today I'm not sure who he was acting for.
Mr. Auchincloss: That was your understanding, that he was an attorney for Mr. Jackson, correct?
David LeGrand: It was my understanding he was being engaged to handle the funds with respect to Fire Mountain, which was --
Mr. Auchincloss: My question is, he was an attorney for Michael Jackson; true or false?
David LeGrand: I don't know that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was that your understanding?
David LeGrand: I am not aware that Mr. Finkelstein believed he was representing Mr. Jackson as an individual.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who was he representing?
David LeGrand: I thought he was acting for Fire Mountain.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Fire Mountain is completely owned by MJJ Productions?
David LeGrand: Yes, a corporation.
Mr. Auchincloss: Which is completely owned by Michael Jackson?
David LeGrand: Yes. That was my understanding.
Mr. Auchincloss: So he would be answering to Michael Jackson, true?
David LeGrand: Ultimately, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Mr. Finkelstein is a specialist in offshore money, isn't he?
David LeGrand: I don't know what he specializes in.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, isn't it true that you transferred two million dollars to Mr. Finkelstein on Michael Jackson's behalf so that Michael Jackson could establish offshore bank accounts, true, or for deposit in offshore bank accounts for Mr. Jackson?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevancy; foundation.
Mr. Auchincloss: True?
The Court: Overruled.
David LeGrand: I have, and had, no knowledge of establishment of offshore accounts for the benefit of Mr. Jackson at that time.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, you were entrusted with this two million dollars, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you were entrusted with that two million dollars to act in Michael Jackson's interests, correct?
David LeGrand: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: And when you transferred that two million dollars to Mr. Finkelstein, Mr. Jackson's interests were what you were serving when you did that, correct?
David LeGrand: That was my intent, yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: And are you telling us you had no idea where that two million dollars was going?
David LeGrand: I thought it was going to be used to pay the expenses that were being incurred on Mr. Jackson's behalf in terms of the Granada litigation, to pay bills, and would be delivered to the money manager once we got the new money manager firmly established. That's what I believed.
Mr. Auchincloss: But it wasn't, was it?
David LeGrand: Actually, I believe a significant portion of the funds ultimately were delivered to Allan Whitman.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know that?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure today, but I thought -- I certainly thought that the residual of the money after that $965,000 was disbursed, I thought that was delivered to Mr. Whitman. But I could be wrong about that.
Mr. Auchincloss: As far as the John Branca and Tommy Motolla investigation by Interfor, Interfor never found any evidence that Mr. Motolla or Mr. Branca were engaged in any fraud with Mr. Jackson, did they?
David LeGrand: That's correct. I had no evidence delivered with that report to substantiate those claims.
Mr. Auchincloss: And in fact, that report only indicate that Sony was depositing money in some offshore account, apparently for Mr. -- on Mr. Jackson's behalf, true?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure about the “Mr. Jackson's behalf”. I would need to see the report.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. But you have no reason to believe that any funds transferred to an offshore account by Sony, you have no reason to believe that those funds were somehow defrauding Mr. Jackson?
David LeGrand: I was given no credible evidence to support those charges. I would be doing Mr. Branca and Mr. Motolla a great wrong if I said otherwise.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you consult with Mr. Jackson before you took two million dollars of his money and sent it to Mr. Finkelstein?
David LeGrand: I don't think so.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever talk to him about that, ever?
David LeGrand: I believe we talked about it when we were at Al Malnik's house in Florida later.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Mr. Finkelstein -- or Mr. Jackson had knowledge of that two million dollars being transferred to Mr. Finkelstein, didn't he?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: He never indicated that he didn't know that you had transferred two million dollars of his money to Mr. Finkelstein without his permission or without his agreement, did he?
David LeGrand: He never indicated to me that he was dissatisfied with what -- with those transfers.
Mr. Auchincloss: As far as this litigation or complaint, or whatever was going on in England regarding the airing of the Bashir special, Janet Arvizo never authorized her joinder in that action, did she, as far as you know?
David LeGrand: The only evidence I saw of her authorization for that action was the page you showed me earlier that Mr. Dickerman subsequently stated was a forgery.
Mr. Auchincloss: And as far as you know, Janet Arvizo has never authorized any law firm in England to represent her, as far as you know today, based on everything?
David LeGrand: Yeah, that's true.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Janet Arvizo was reluctant to sign those consent forms because she felt that she was burned in the Martin Bashir special; that her family was hurt because Gavin appeared in that special without anybody's consent. Isn't that one of the reasons why she was reluctant to sign those consent forms?
David LeGrand: I don't know what was in Janet Arvizo's mind.
Mr. Auchincloss: No one ever communicated to you that that was part of her reluctance in signing those forms?
David LeGrand: I don't remember that. I think Mr. Dickerman said words to that effect in 2004. But I don't remember anybody at the time, the week or ten days or so that we were engaged in getting appearance consents and releases from various people, I don't believe I heard that kind of statement at that time.
Mr. Auchincloss: As far as the allegations of double-dealing, self-interest involving the Interfor investigation, Interfor never came up with anything substantial, substantive, about Mr. Konitzer, did they?
David LeGrand: I'm not sure what you mean by “substantive”.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, in terms of his double-dealing with Michael Jackson, was there ever any indication that he was double-dealing with Michael Jackson based upon that report?
David LeGrand: No, but that wasn't -- the report wasn't about that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was there ever any indication that he was double-dealing -- that Dieter Weizner was double-dealing with Michael Jackson in any way, shape or form?
David LeGrand: Not in that report.
Mr. Auchincloss: That report was basically full of rumors and unsubstantiated allegations, true, because it was incomplete?
David LeGrand: Ultimately that was my view.
Mr. Auchincloss: And if Bank of America knew that you were sending two million dollars to Mr. Finkelstein, do you think they would have gone ahead and authorized the handling of these funds through the Fire Mountain account?
David LeGrand: I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, didn't you know that they were concerned about paying bills and not putting money offshore?
David LeGrand: I don't know. I can't speak for Bank of America, I'm sorry, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Janet Arvizo, based upon everything you knew, was going to get nothing for this film, video, of her and her family that was taken at Mr. Moslehi's house, true?
David LeGrand: I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, you didn't disburse any funds to her from the account that you pulled in three million dollars from FOX on, correct?
David LeGrand: That's true.
Mr. Auchincloss: And she didn't get a dime of that, did she?
David LeGrand: Not to my knowledge.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you knew she was a poor individual, indigent, her family did not have money?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did it ever occur to you that you were engaging in an exploitation of Janet Arvizo along with Michael Jackson?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; leading; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. LeGrand, as far as any requests from the People regarding files or any requests from law enforcement regarding files, the reason why no requests were made is because that would have been futile, because there's an attorney-client privilege that protects those files; isn't that accurate?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Misstates the evidence; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: I'm not an expert in that area of law, but I think generally you're correct, that the prosecution in this case could not have compelled me to produce those files without Mr. Jackson's consent.
Mr. Auchincloss: And in fact, you were contacted by the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Office and asked to be interviewed, and you refused; isn't that true?
David LeGrand: I informed your -- I'm not sure what his title was, but I informed the investigator who called from the office that I would only be able to be interviewed if they obtained Mr. Jackson's consent.
Mr. Auchincloss: No further questions.
Message: FURTHER REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. LeGrand, do you know whether or not Mr. Jackson has waived the attorney-client privilege as far as you're concerned?
David LeGrand: Yes. I received documents signed by Mr. Jackson waiving privilege so that I could appear here today and yesterday.
Mr. Mesereau: In fact, you were informed quite a while ago that Mr. Jackson had waived the attorney-client privilege, correct?
David LeGrand: Well, I was informed that he was prepared to waive it with respect to my testimony, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Nobody from law enforcement has ever asked you if there was any waiver of the attorney-client privilege, right?
David LeGrand: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Nobody from the prosecution has ever asked you if there was any waiver of the attorney-client privilege?
David LeGrand: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Jackson doesn't even know who Mr. Finkelstein is, right?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Assumes facts; foundation; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions.
Message: FURTHER RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: As far as this waiver goes, when did you ultimately obtain a waiver from Mr. Jackson on the attorney-client privilege?
David LeGrand: I believe it was Wednesday morning, this week.
Mr. Auchincloss: No further questions.
Message: FURTHER REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. LeGrand, do you remember learning that we had turned over your files to the prosecution last December?
David LeGrand: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; assumes facts.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they ever ask you to follow up, give them some more documents after they got your files last December?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
David LeGrand: I had no contact from the prosecutor's office other than that one phone call from the sheriffs a long -- or investigator a long time ago. But since December, no.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you aware that Mr. Auchincloss had your files as of last December?
David LeGrand: I didn't even know who Mr. Auchincloss was before yesterday, but I had been informed by you that my files had been delivered to the office headed by Mr. Sneddon.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
Mr. Auchincloss: I have no further questions, Your Honor. But there is one housekeeping matter that I don't think is appropriate for me to mention in front of the jury.
The Court: All right. Then I'll excuse the jury for lunch. We'll take our break now, and I'll remain for a moment. (To the witness) Just a moment. I'm not sure if this involves you or not.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Auchincloss: Your Honor, this witness has indicated that he turned over five boxes of documents to the defense. He has indicated that there should have been e-mails in that -- in those files, as well as his personal notes regarding communications with his client. I would like to state for the record, we have none of those items. We have what I would say would probably be one banker's box of materials. And I would like this witness ordered back. I would like him ordered to produce the entire file regarding Mr. Jackson. And I would like an opportunity to review those documents and, if necessary, have him brought back on cross-examination concerning those documents.
The Court: As I understood his testimony, he's turned over everything that he had to somebody else. I mean, he doesn't claim that he has any of the documents.
Mr. Auchincloss: And if that is the state of the record, then I'd ask that the Court order the defense to produce the documents that I've mentioned.
The Court: Is that your position, that you've already turned over everything you have on this case to someone else?
David LeGrand: Your Honor, with respect -- I am no longer associated with the firm of Hale Lane.
The Bailiff: No one can hear you, sir.
David LeGrand: I'm sorry. I am no longer associated with the law firm of Hale Lane. And I have no control over any of the files that remain at Hale Lane. I have no access to any of those materials. I did, when I left Hale Lane, have a few legal pads of notes. I don't know whether those notes include any references to Mr. Jackson or not. And I will be pleased to, you know, look through those and see if there are. But I have no access or control.
The Court: Other than that, is it your belief that all the file was turned over, or do you have any way of knowing that?
David LeGrand: I really have no way of knowing that. I mean, I -- when my representation was terminated originally back in March of 2003, I prepared copies of all the files at that time and delivered them, I believe to Mr. Malnik in Florida, who at the time I understood to be the primary attorney serving Mr. Jackson. Subsequently, I was re-engaged for the limited purpose of continuing to manage the Granada litigation in the United Kingdom, and continued in that role until -- for quite a while, until the charges were brought against Mr. Jackson in this case, at which time the litigation in the UK was put on hold. Shortly thereafter, I communicated with Mr. Malnik, asked him what I should do. And I corresponded with, I think it was Steve Cochran, Zia Modabber, whom I knew from the dealings with Mr. Jackson, and indicated that I felt it appropriate to turn over my records to the Katten Muchin law firm, which at the time seemed to have a continuing representation of Mr. Jackson. I instructed my staff to prepare, you know, copies of files. I -- this discussion of completeness is somewhat baffling to me. Nobody ever requested that I turn over every single piece of paper, e-mail or document, that we make, you know, a thorough search of every crevice and cranny of our firm. We simply did our best to, you know, compile the files and deliver them. A lot of --
The Court: Have you turned over everything that you have control of at this point to somebody, other than --
David LeGrand: Yeah, I think so.
The Court: Okay.
David LeGrand: It's possible I have some boxes that may contain some notes.
The Court: I'll ask you to look through whatever records you have, and if you find that you have some, prepare -- notify both sides and give both sides access to those documents.
David LeGrand: Very good, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: There was one other thing. He mentioned that he delivered a CD of e-mails to the defense, which we have not received.
The Court: Well, my recollection of the testimony was that he thought he did. Did you --
Ms. Yu: Your Honor, I believe everything was produced. We printed everything from a CD that, it is correct, that Mr. LeGrand -- and we printed it out and we produced them.
The Court: All right.
Ms. Yu: Every page.
The Court: So you should have those. So the Court will -- you may step down. Thank you. The Court will go in recess.
David LeGrand: There's still a binder here. Somebody -- I'm not sure whose it is.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Call your next witness.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. The defense will call Mr. Mark Geragos.
The Court: Come forward, please. When you get to the witness stand, remain standing. Face the clerk and raise your right hand.
Message: MARK GERAGOS Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Mark Geragos: Yes.
The Clerk: Please be seated.
Mark Geragos: Thank you.
The Clerk: State and spell your name for the record.
Mark Geragos: Mark Geragos. G-e-r-a-g-o-s.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning, Mark.
Mark Geragos: Good morning, Tom.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you please give a little summary of your education?
Mark Geragos: I went to college, I went to law school, I passed the bar.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: That was kind of long-winded, wasn't it?
Mark Geragos: It was not a very distinguished undergraduate or graduate career, so....
Mr. Mesereau: And you are a lawyer in Los Angeles, correct?
Mark Geragos: I am. I've got a firm in Los Angeles, which I share with my father and my brother, named Geragos & Geragos. We stayed up all night thinking it up.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Do you know the fellow seated at counsel table to my right?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who is he?
Mark Geragos: Michael Jackson, who was a client of mine for about 16 months.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you first meet Mr. Jackson?
Mark Geragos: It would have been probably about February -- the first week of February of 2003, I believe.
Mr. Mesereau: And at some point, you were retained to represent Mr. Jackson, right?
Mark Geragos: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did that come about?
Mark Geragos: Although I know you've told me out of court that there is a waiver, Your Honor, I have not seen nor heard it on the record, and I'm more comfortable if I have that first.
The Court: Certainly.
Mr. Mesereau: I can represent to the Court there is a waiver of the attorney-client privilege so Mr. Geragos can testify.
The Court: You have a written waiver you'll provide him with after court today?
Mr. Mesereau: We will do that, Your Honor, sure.
The Court: Is that satisfactory?
Mark Geragos: That is, Your Honor. Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: When were you first retained to represent Mr. Jackson?
Mark Geragos: It would have been sometime shortly before I met him the first time. The first time I met Michael was at Neverland, and I was contacted by somebody from, I think, Paul Hastings. And then was sent -- or there was a series of transactions, I guess, or faxes back and forth, and ultimately I was retained and then went up to Neverland and met Michael for the first time.
Mr. Mesereau: And why were you retained?
Mark Geragos: At that point, there were allegations that were being made in the media and there was also, as I remember, complaints that were being made to Child Services about him, his fitness as a parent, as well.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you represent Mr. Jackson in those two areas?
Mark Geragos: I did. I was given the role, so to speak, among a cast of thousands, to kind of coordinate and be a person who would look out for his interests in those areas.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you began to represent Mr. Jackson, were you reporting to anyone in particular?
Mark Geragos: Well, when I first came on board, there was a gentleman, who I saw in the hallway just a minute ago, David LeGrand, who was there, who was a lawyer who was coordinating a lot of the stuff. There was a gentleman who he introduced me to named Ronald Konitzer. And there was a gentleman over at Paul Hastings. And I feel awful, I can't remember his name, because he's the person who referred me over there in the first place. But there was another lawyer there. But generally what would happen is, it wasn't so much reporting as we would have these interminably long conference calls.
Mr. Mesereau: And generally who was involved in those calls?
Mark Geragos: It seemed like everyone. There were all kinds of people on the conference calls. There were PR people. Paul Hastings lawyers. David LeGrand would be on the conference call. I would plug into the conference call. Ronald Konitzer would be on the conference call, among others. Those are the ones that come to mind.
Mr. Mesereau: And were these conference calls occurring on a daily basis?
Mark Geragos: It seemed like it.
Mr. Mesereau: Typically who would initiate the conference call?
Mark Geragos: I think David's office would be my -- would -- but that would be a guess. I really don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Michael Jackson usually involved in these conference calls?
Mark Geragos: Usually not.
Mr. Mesereau: Was he involved in any of them?
Mark Geragos: He -- there were a couple of calls. You're talking about February of '03.
Mr. Mesereau: Sure.
Mark Geragos: There were a couple of calls where Michael would get on the phone for brief periods of time, but generally were not the same as what I'm talking about with these conference calls. Those would be a call where maybe Ronald would put him on the phone, there would a brief discussion. It wouldn't be more than, I don't know, 45 seconds or a minute, usually, it seemed like. It was very quick.
Mr. Mesereau: And I believe said your work involved response to the Bashir documentary?
Mark Geragos: Well, the lawyers who were responding to the Bashir documentary, as I understood it, was there was -- I think it was Paul Hastings English barristers who were dealing with the documentary there and dealing with some issue that they kept talking about, some board that was involved that they were making complaints about. And then here, my role was to see if there was any kind of -- anything that needed to be done to protect him in terms of his parental rights or anything else from the accusations that were being made against him.
Mr. Mesereau: Was your firm exclusively involved in the area of child custody, parental rights?
Mark Geragos: No. There was -- he had a -- I don't know if he still has, but there was a lawyer by the name of -- I think his name was Lance Spiegel, from a firm on the west side of Los Angeles, and he was clearly primarily with the custody issues. My role was if there was any DCFS involvement, if there was anybody who was trying to do anything else. Basically to see if there was anything else that he needed protection against.
Mr. Mesereau: Was a potential DCFS investigation the only investigation you were concerned about at the time?
Mark Geragos: No, no, I was concerned about -- obviously at the same time that the documentary came out, at the time, there were people making all kinds of accusations about Michael, and specifically with one young man who was involved in that documentary, and I was supposed to look into that as well.
Mr. Mesereau: And was his name “Gavin Arvizo”?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. At some point, did you ever hear the name “Janet Arvizo”?
Mark Geragos: At the very -- probably before I heard the name “Gavin”.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you hear her name?
Mark Geragos: Initially there was a rundown of exactly what the situation was. And I couldn't tell you exactly if it was Paul Hastings or if it was the English counterpart or the American counterpart or if it was David, but there was a rundown of the situation. I was told about the Arvizos. I was also told and the first thing that was done that had any urgency is there was a 60 Minutes taping that was scheduled, and they wanted me to be up there to make sure that Michael didn't make any statements or questions weren't asked that were inappropriate.
Mr. Mesereau: And was this at Neverland?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see Janet Arvizo at Neverland on that day?
Mark Geragos: I remember seeing Gavin at Neverland that day. And then we were there for, I don't know, maybe 12 hours or so. And during that time there, I was getting downloaded with information as well from a number of people at the ranch itself.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was your role as far as your representation of Mr. Jackson went on that occasion?
Mark Geragos: Well, that was really -- they just wanted me, I guess, as a backstop on the interview. And ultimately, after sitting there for about 12 hours, it was my decision, or I told them that, look, if I was going to be involved, I didn't want him doing the interview, and I pulled the plug on it.
Mr. Mesereau: So ultimately that interview with 60 Minutes did not take place, correct?
Mark Geragos: On that occasion in February of 2003, it did not. I -- I said that it was not going to happen, and asked that they -- politely asked Mr. Bradley, and there was another producer, whose name I think was Radotsky, Michael Radotsky, who was there, told them that this was not going to happen.
Mr. Mesereau: And you say you were at Neverland approximately 12 hours that day?
Mark Geragos: It seemed like it, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you see Ms. Janet Arvizo there the whole time?
Mark Geragos: Well, portions, is my memory. I remember -- I have vivid memories about Gavin Arvizo talking with Ed Bradley and Gavin Arvizo talking with Radotsky, which I think is his name, the producer, and then seeing what was going on there. And also hearing these stories that people were telling me, and trying to just take it in and sort out whatever it was.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that the Arvizos wanted to have a role in that 60 Minutes documentary?
Mark Geragos: I watched as --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as to speculative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Referring only to your state of mind at the time, Mr. Geragos, did you have any knowledge one way or the other whether or not the Arvizos were supposed to be involved in the documentary?
Mr. Zonen: I object as irrelevant to this question.
The Court: You have to let him finish the question so I know what you're objecting to.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Geragos, just directing my question to your state of mind at the time, did you have any understanding one way or the other whether or not Janet Arvizo and the children were supposed to appear in a 60 Minutes documentary?
Mr. Zonen: Objection to his state of mind as being irrelevant to this proceeding.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: In your capacity as Mr. Jackson's attorney on that day, did you have any understanding as to why the Arvizos were at Neverland?
Mark Geragos: The -- I saw an interaction between Gavin Arvizo --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object to any vision of interaction as being irrelevant to this proceeding, and the question is irrelevant and lacking in foundation.
Mr. Mesereau: He's cutting off the witness, Your Honor, I object.
The Court: I think that question can be answered “yes” or “no”, and we can go from there. Do you want the question read back?
Mark Geragos: God, I hate to say “no”. Did I see -- did I see an interaction? Yes.
The Court: I'll have the question read back so you understand it.
The Court Reporter: In your capacity as Mr. Jackson's attorney on that day, did you have any understanding as to why the Arvizos were at Neverland?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What was your understanding?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; lack of foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: As Mr. Jackson's attorney, were you under any instructions to do anything with the Arvizos at Neverland on that particular day?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; vague. Instruction from whom?
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk to Janet Arvizo that day?
Mark Geragos: Briefly, I believe. But -- I know that I didn't talk to her. I watched her interact or converse with Mr. Radotsky, who was the producer. I believe Mr. Bradley.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see Ms. Arvizo talking to Mr. Radotsky for any length of time that day?
Mark Geragos: I don't know if I would say a length of time. I saw at least on two occasions, I think.
Mr. Mesereau: And why were you at Neverland that day?
Mark Geragos: I was asked to come up by Mr. LeGrand specifically to, I guess, monitor the interview.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you under the impression, as you arrived, that the Arvizos were going to be there?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Why?
Mark Geragos: It's what I was told.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that by Mr. LeGrand?
Mark Geragos: I believe it was.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you told why they were going to be there?
Mark Geragos: I believe Mr. LeGrand told me that --
Mr. Zonen: That would be “yes” or “no”, Your Honor. I object to any answer beyond that.
The Court: Sustained. “Yes” or “no”.
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was your understanding as to why they were going to be there?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Hearsay; lack of foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you give any advice to the Arvizos on that particular day?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk to Gavin Arvizo on that particular day?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Who else do you recall being at Neverland on that particular day, other than the people you've identified?
Mark Geragos: Dieter Weizner was there. I think a gentleman by the name of Jack Sussman from CBS was there. There was a woman which -- also with CBS with the last name of Simon, I think was there. There was another lawyer from my office with me. I can't remember which lawyer it was. And there was a -- I don't know, a cast of probably 30 or 40 people, production people, who were there as well.
Mr. Mesereau: And what time did you arrive there that day?
Mark Geragos: I couldn't tell you. It was light outside. But I don't -- I would imagine late morning, early afternoon, but that's just a guess.
Mr. Mesereau: What time do you think you left?
Mark Geragos: Whatever, eight, ten, twelve hours after I arrived.
Mr. Mesereau: When you left, do you know whether or not Janet Arvizo was still there?
Mark Geragos: I do not.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know whether or not Gavin Arvizo was still there?
Mark Geragos: I do not. Not as I sit here today.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you hear Janet Arvizo say anything to Mr. Radotsky?
Mark Geragos: Not that I can remember as I sit here.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see Janet Arvizo talk to Ed Bradley of 60 Minutes?
Mark Geragos: I believe that I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you hear what she said?
Mark Geragos: Not that I can remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you see either Mr. Bradley or Mr. Radotsky talking to Gavin Arvizo?
Mark Geragos: Yes. I think Radotsky, with Mr. Bradley. I don't know that he was actively participating, but I do believe Radotsky was talking.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately what date was this, Mr. Geragos?
Mark Geragos: I want to say February 7th, and I just -- I don't know if that was a Saturday. I don't believe it was a court day. So it was either a Saturday or a Sunday, but I'd just be guessing again.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you seen the Bashir documentary at this point?
Mark Geragos: I have seen it. But not recently.
Mr. Mesereau: No, had you seen it at this particular point in time?
Mark Geragos: No, I had not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Janet Arvizo again?
Mark Geragos: No, I don't believe that I have.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever spoken to her on the phone?
Mark Geragos: No, I don't believe that I have.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Following that visit to Neverland, you continued to represent Mr. Jackson, right?
Mark Geragos: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And what were the things you were doing as a lawyer for Mr. Jackson?
Mark Geragos: Well, one of the first things that I did after that was to get ahold of the -- a copy of the documentary by Mr. Bashir. I watched it. We were -- on these conference calls, they would talk about what the various allegations were against Michael. One of the first things I did is involve a private investigator. And I involved a private investigator and I had some associates in the firm do some database searching on various players involved.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, was it your understanding at that point that Mr. Sneddon had started any investigation?
Mark Geragos: No. It was not my understanding that he had.
Mr. Mesereau: Had you heard of any statements Mr. Sneddon had made anywhere about an investigation into Michael Jackson at that point?
Mark Geragos: In early February, no. The only thing that -- as I remember, in early February, that sticks out in my mind now as I sit here, was something about somebody complaining to DCFS.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you said you started your own investigation, right?
Mark Geragos: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And why did you do that?
Mark Geragos: I was -- the things that I was hearing about the Arvizos gave me great pause.
Mr. Mesereau: What were you hearing?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as hearsay and irrelevance and lack of foundation and vague as to time.
The Court: I'm going to overrule the objection and I'm going to allow the witness to answer, but I'll caution the jury that at this point, what he states that he heard about the family is not offered for the truth of the matter asserted. But it's offered to explain why he did certain things thereafter. Go ahead.
Mark Geragos: Thank you. I had -- when I was up there, sitting up there that day, somebody had told me a story about Gavin being told to refer to Michael as “Daddy”, and that -- that Michael was uncomfortable with that; that the person that was telling me was probably one of the people who were -- it was either Weizner or Konitzer or somebody, somebody who was up there, and that that concerned him greatly. That obviously gave me pause, and so in response to that, I decided to run some database searches on the Arvizos.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you run those database searches on the Arvizos?
Mark Geragos: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you find?
Mark Geragos: The -- a lawsuit against J.C. Penney's and -- a lawsuit against J.C. Penney's and then a purported -- and then I had somebody, and I don't know if it was in-office or not, take a look at the file or do a little bit more due diligence on it.
Mr. Mesereau: That was look at the J.C. Penney file?
Mark Geragos: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And why did you do that?
Mark Geragos: Well, I had a concern at that point that given what was going on, that somebody might use the situation to manipulate my client.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you say “manipulate” your client, what do you mean?
Mark Geragos: It was not unknown to me that my client is frequently the target of litigation, so I -- and you've got a whirlwind of activity going around and you've got people making accusations. It occurs to me that I want to know if some of the players that are involved have a litigious history, so that's why I ran the database search.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did you do the database search yourself or did you have an investigator do it?
Mark Geragos: That's what I said before. I don't know if it was inhouse or out. I can't tell you, as I sit here, for sure, whether I had Brad do it, whether I had somebody just run it on either Lexis or West Law in the office, but somebody did it and came up with it.
Mr. Mesereau: Who is Brad?
Mark Geragos: Brad Miller is the investigator who I hired to start to do an investigation on the Arvizos.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when did you start your investigation into the Arvizos?
Mark Geragos: It would have been very shortly after leaving Neverland. So if that was the 7th or the 8th, it would have been within a couple of days.
Mr. Mesereau: And when do you think you learned about the J.C. Penney lawsuit that had been filed by the Arvizos?
Mark Geragos: Within a couple of days.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what was your reaction to what you learned about that suit?
Mark Geragos: I was gravely concerned.
Mr. Mesereau: Why?
Mark Geragos: I thought that given the situation, and I was also given information that they were attempting or that there were rumors that the family was attempting --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object to any reference to “rumors” or any information from an unnamed source as lacking in foundation, speculative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Was the investigation you did into the J.C. Penney lawsuit the first part of your investigation into the Arvizos?
Mark Geragos: Probably. I mean, to that extent that you run some kind of a database search, I suppose that was -- if it wasn't the first, it was in the top five.
Mr. Mesereau: And was Mr. Miller involved in that search into the J.C. Penney lawsuit, to your knowledge?
Mark Geragos: I would imagine that after I -- if he didn't find it, that I quickly brought it to his attention and he did do -- he probably would have -- he probably would have been the guy that I assigned to follow up on it. But I -- I don't know as I sit here.
Mr. Mesereau: Is Mr. Miller a licensed private investigator in California?
Mark Geragos: He is.
Mr. Mesereau: And had you worked with him before?
Mark Geragos: I had, on, I think, probably three or four occasions.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where was his office at the time?
Mark Geragos: You know, I believe at the time it was in Beverly Hills. But I can't -- that's only because I know it was in Beverly Hills at one time and it's no longer in Beverly Hills. I don't know in February of '03 if it still was in Beverly Hills. I couldn't tell you.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the investigation into the Arvizos that you started continue?
Mark Geragos: Yes. I had him -- or I asked him to please find out where they were, and to document what they were doing, who they were meeting with, and whether or not they were either trying to sell a story to the tabloids, or meeting with lawyers, or anything even more grave than that, at least from my client's standpoint.
Mr. Mesereau: When you say “more grave than that”, what are you talking about?
Mark Geragos: Well, I -- I thought at that time that it was a problem that somebody could manipulate the situation. I don't know -- I don't want to run through a parade of horribles in my mind, but I thought that, given what the situation was, somebody could take advantage of it, and I was worried about that. And I -- so I decided I wanted to know, and I told Brad, “Tell me where they are, tell me what they're doing, and tell me who they're meeting with”.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you concerned that the Arvizos might be planning to extort Michael Jackson?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mark Geragos: I was; I was concerned.
Mr. Zonen: There's an objection.
The Court: Just a moment.
Mark Geragos: I'm sorry.
The Court: Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: What else did you do to investigate the problem of the Arvizos possibly manipulating Michael Jackson?
Mark Geragos: Well, I -- besides have Brad do that, we investigate -- they were not the only -- they weren't the sole focus, but for your -- to answer your question, I also told Brad I wanted him to go and take a statement and get a statement from them.
Mr. Mesereau: And why did you want Brad Miller to get a statement from the Arvizos?
Mark Geragos: Because I found that -- in the past, at least, with other cases, that if somebody gives a statement right at the time, that it's much more difficult later for them to make up something and change the story, because you're locked into it. That's what the truth was, and that's why I wanted a statement.
Mr. Mesereau: And in your experience, it's pretty typical for an investigator to try and get statements, correct?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mark Geragos: It's what investigators do. The reason you have the investigator take the statement and not the lawyer is so that the lawyer doesn't end up being like I am up here, on the witness stand.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, did Mr. Miller take a statement from the Arvizos?
Mark Geragos: Yes, Mr. Miller took a statement. I told him to identify himself. I told him to tell them that he was taking it for me, and I told him that I wanted him to ask questions.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you ever actually see that statement?
Mark Geragos: Later I saw a transcript of it. But I don't know that I saw -- I think he downloaded it to me in essence saying, “This is what they said, this is what they said, this is what they said”, in a telephone call is probably what he did.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding, Mr. Geragos, that statement would be recorded?
Mark Geragos: I wanted a tape-recorded statement of them, detailing all of -- or as extensively as possible, and I wanted it done -- I probably told Brad something to the effect, “I want it done yesterday. I don't want to wait. Get it done”.
Mr. Mesereau: Did anything else go on in the investigation of the Arvizos?
Mark Geragos: Well, at the same time that that was happening, the -- there was a rebuttal video being made by a gentleman named Schaffel, who seemed to be running that end of things, and that rebuttal video involved the Arvizos as well. So at one point I instructed Brad, “Go watch when that gets made and sit there, and don't leave until you get a copy of that videotape. Because I want a copy of the videotape. I don't want it to disappear into the ether”.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did he do that?
Mark Geragos: I know that he went there. I don't know that we ever got a copy of the videotape.
Mr. Mesereau: Is there anything else you had Mr. Miller do to investigate the Arvizos?
Mark Geragos: I don't know. Off the top of my head, the things that I described is what I remember, as I sit here.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever arrange to have the Arvizos put under surveillance?
Mark Geragos: I told him at one point I wanted to know where they were, what they were doing, who they were meeting with, and to report back to me.
Mr. Mesereau: And as far as you know, putting people under surveillance is part of an investigation, and it's perfectly lawful, correct?
Mark Geragos: I have done it on more than one occasion. I know most lawyers do it with great frequency. I know D.A.s do it. And law enforcement does it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you know whether or not the Arvizos were actually put under surveillance at some point?
Mark Geragos: I do now, and I did then.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. To your knowledge, was anyone working with Mr. Miller in your investigation of the Arvizos?
Mark Geragos: I know now that they were. He may have told me that a gentleman by the same of Asaf did something for him on one occasion. I know now that he had somebody named Johnny working for him. And I didn't know that at the time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how long did your investigation of the Arvizos last, if you know?
Mark Geragos: If he started sometime after February 7th, it would have gone through probably the middle or end of March would be my guess.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you mentioned someone named Schaffel. Did you meet Marc Schaffel at some point?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever speak to him?
Mark Geragos: I've spoken to him on the phone.
Mr. Mesereau: How often do you think you've spoken to him on the phone?
Mark Geragos: I couldn't tell you. Anytime that anything came up about this video that was being made, I was always told to talk to Schaffel.
Mr. Mesereau: How many conversations do you think you had with Schaffel about the making of the video?
Mark Geragos: It would just be a guess. I have no idea.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mark Geragos: I would say five to ten, probably. Maybe more.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, was Schaffel typically involved in the conference calls you have described before?
Mark Geragos: Actually, no. He was not typically involved in the conference calls. In fact, at one point, David LeGrand and I had discussed excising Schaffel from the whole situation --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object to that portion as being nonresponsive to the question and hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Motion to strike.
The Court: Strike it after, “Actually, no”.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you and Mr. LeGrand have any discussions about Marc Schaffel?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many do you think you had?
Mark Geragos: At least three.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you have more discussions with Konitzer than you did Schaffel?
Mark Geragos: Clearly. Clearly.
Mr. Mesereau: And why do you say that?
Mark Geragos: Ronald Konitzer was, from my perception, the person who was kind of the backstop or the person who was running things.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you meet with him personally?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: On how many occasions, do you think?
Mark Geragos: Probably at least three.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever talk to a guy named Dieter Weizner?
Mark Geragos: During the time period of February and March of '03, only the time that I was at Neverland did I speak to Dieter, and it was for just a very brief period of time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mark Geragos: I later -- in terms of time, I later talked to Dieter maybe a year after that more extensively. But February and March, no, I had very little contact with Dieter.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, as part of your investigation into the Arvizos, you described the statement that Mr. Miller obtained, his attendance at the rebuttal video, and you say you learned about some surveillance that went on. Is there anything else that was part of that investigation that you remember?
Mark Geragos: Well, I remember a series of letters with a gentleman named Dickerman. And storage of Janet Arvizo's things in a storage unit. And I remember going back and forth with Mr. Dickerman as to where he wanted those items and the things that he was claiming.
Mr. Mesereau: You mentioned Janet Arvizo's possessions being in a storage unit. How did that happen?
Mark Geragos: I -- I don't know, because I wasn't there. Everything I know was later related to me. If that's okay, I'll get into that. You don't have -- there's no objection. Okay. It was later related to me by Brad that she was moving in with her boyfriend who was --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as to hearsay. Nonresponsive to the question.
The Court: Okay. Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Was that one sustained, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you.
The Court: He gave you the opening line, but you were talking to counsel.
Mark Geragos: I tried to prompt you, Mr. Zonen.
The Court: He was prompting you. Go ahead.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have anything to do with the storage of Janet Arvizo's possessions?
Mark Geragos: I told Brad at one point, “If you're going to do this, film it, so that you don't later get accused of taking something”.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you have any understanding as to why Brad was going to store that material?
Mark Geragos: I believe --
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as hearsay.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mark Geragos: I believe it was because he was trying to remain in the good graces to get whatever information he could as to what they were up to.
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as speculative, move to strike.
The Court: I'll strike that.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that Janet wanted Brad to store her possessions?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Leading and speculative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know why those possessions were stored?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; lack of foundation.
The Court: Foundation; sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever at any point have any knowledge as to why those possessions were stored by Mr. Miller?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object beyond “yes” or “no”.
Mark Geragos: Yes. I'm sorry, I may have jumped the gun.
The Court: That's fine. Go ahead. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: Why were they stored?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Lack of foundation; hearsay.
The Court: Foundation; sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know why they were stored?
Mark Geragos: I believe they were stored --
Mr. Zonen: I'll object to anything beyond “yes” or “no”.
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you obtain your knowledge of how they were stored?
Mark Geragos: Talking with Mr. Miller.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he tell you why they were stored?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you give any instructions to him about storing that material?
Mark Geragos: I told him when he did the move --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Were those possessions stored at your request?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Were they stored because Mr. Miller wanted to store them?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Lack of foundation; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see those possessions at any time?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever go to storage to see those possessions?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you had some correspondence with Attorney Bill Dickerman about those possessions, right?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what can you tell us about that?
Mark Geragos: That every time I'd get a letter it didn't seem to represent the phone conversation that we had.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he start writing to you about wanting those possessions returned?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know approximately when that happened?
Mark Geragos: I do not. It was sometime after -- it was sometime after February.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were still representing Michael Jackson at the time, correct?
Mark Geragos: I represented Michael all the way through, I don't know, whatever -- February to whenever, December, I guess.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some point, did you try to return those possessions to Mr. Dickerman?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And please explain what you did.
Mark Geragos: I directed -- when I first got the letter from Mr. Dickerman, I told somebody to fax it over to Brad, somebody in my office to fax it over to Brad. And at some point, then received another letter, and letters kept coming back and forth. And there would be phone calls. And I kept trying to get this stuff over there, suggesting that either they take over the storage unit, that they pay for the storage unit, that they do anything to get it out, so that we could get out of the situation.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you say that it was at your direction that the move was videotaped?
Mark Geragos: I believe I'm the one who told Brad, “If you're going to do this, you better videotape the move”. I believe that's what I told him. It was almost those exact words.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he ever tell you that Janet wanted him to move that stuff?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When did he tell you that Janet wanted him to move that stuff?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as hearsay. Move to strike.
The Court: Overruled. The question, though, now, is, “When did she tell you” -- no. “When did he tell you that Janet wanted him to move the stuff?”
Mark Geragos: Probably in the same conversation I said, “If you're going to do it, you should videotape it”.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, was that material ever returned to Mr. Dickerman?
Mark Geragos: You know, I assume so. But I know that there was one instance where I got so fed up with what was going on, that I actually told --
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if that material was ever returned to Mr. Dickerman?
Mark Geragos: I know at one time I directed that it just be dumped into his law office so that he would take it, and the building wouldn't accept it.
Mr. Mesereau: That was done at your request?
Mark Geragos: To return it? Yes. At all times I said, “Return the stuff”.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know someone named Frank Tyson?
Mark Geragos: I've met Frank Tyson.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you first meet him?
Mark Geragos: Probably it would have been mid-February of 2003, would be a guess.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately where you met him?
Mark Geragos: No. I can't tell you where I met him. I think he came to my office once with another guy whose name I can't remember. But I -- but I don't know if that was the first time I met him or not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have much communication with Frank Tyson?
Mark Geragos: I talked to Frank occasionally.
Mr. Mesereau: Would he typically call you?
Mark Geragos: Most always. I wasn't calling him.
Mr. Mesereau: How many conversations do you think you had with him?
Mark Geragos: Well, if he would call me, I might call him back. But I don't know how many conversations. I don't know that it was a time. I think he was in communication with Brad more than he was with me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, at some point did your investigation into the Arvizos terminate?
Mark Geragos: Yeah. I would say probably -- probably about five or six weeks after it started.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you reach any conclusions about the Arvizos, based upon your investigation?
Mark Geragos: Yeah. They -- that Michael could have nothing to do with them.
Mr. Mesereau: Why is that?
Mark Geragos: I just felt like it was a pending disaster.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you mean by “pending disaster”?
Mark Geragos: I just was not comfortable with what I was finding out, what I was hearing. I just wasn't comfortable with that.
Mr. Mesereau: What were you finding out?
Mark Geragos: Well, I --
Mr. Zonen: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever concerned that the Arvizos were going to try to extort Michael Jackson?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Were the results of your investigation negative or positive when it came to the Arvizos?
Mark Geragos: Negative.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; vague.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you conclude?
Mark Geragos: I concluded that they -- that they should --
Mr. Zonen: Objection; calls for a conclusion.
The Court: You should have said “asked and answered”. He's already discussed that. Move on.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. As Mr. Jackson's lawyer at that point in time, did you think it was in his interest to be involved with the Arvizos?
Mark Geragos: I --
Mr. Zonen: Objection; asked and answered.
Mr. Mesereau: No, it wasn't.
The Court: It is. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear anything about the Arvizos taking a trip to Brazil?
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, I'm going to object as to hearsay. And vague, “hear anything about”.
Bailiff Cortez: Your microphone's off again, sir.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn whether or not the Arvizos were planning to take a trip to Brazil?
Mark Geragos: I learned later that there were --
Mr. Zonen: I will object to anything beyond “yes” or “no” as nonresponsive.
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you learn?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have anything to do with any planned trip to Brazil involving the Arvizos?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn if anyone did?
Mark Geragos: I learned that someone --
Mr. Zonen: Objection beyond “yes” or “no”.
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you learn?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn that the Arvizos were traveling to any federal buildings to obtain passports or visas for a trip to Brazil?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; beyond the scope. Objection; lack of foundation and leading.
The Court: Sustained on leading. Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: During the time you represented Michael Jackson, did you ever do anything involving a potential trip to Brazil with the Arvizos?
Mark Geragos: I didn't do anything involving a potential trip to Brazil with the Arvizos.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn anything about such a trip?
Mark Geragos: I did, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you learn that?
Mark Geragos: Sometime after Michael was arrested.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And at some point, did you ever have possession of passports of the Arvizos?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And could you explain that?
Mark Geragos: The passport -- when I was going through all of the materials that we had in our office in order to itemize them for you, in turning over all the files, the passports were located in a locked file cabinet where we kept a lot of Michael's files. I then directed one of the lawyers in my office to file the passports with the Court so that I did not give them to you, so that you wouldn't be in a position where you would have to testify as to them.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you, in fact, turn them in to this Court?
Mark Geragos: I directed one of the lawyers in my office to bring them to the Court and file them with the Court as a court's exhibit.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Is that the last you saw of them?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were you involved in any business matters related to Mr. Jackson during the first three months of 2003?
Mark Geragos: There probably were times when Mr. Konitzer would ask about certain projects. And then if it was something somebody in the office, one of the other lawyers, could deal with, I would refer him to one of the other lawyers. So, yes, I would say that there were some occasions.
Mr. Mesereau: And what kind of projects are you referring to?
Mark Geragos: My understanding of what Mr. Konitzer's relationship was with Mr. Jackson was that he was helping to promote, I don't know, technological applications of various things. And it was usually surrounding those kind of items and usually it was beyond our expertise. So usually I would tell him -- refer him over to somebody else or to some other lawyer. But he would come and seek advice on those things.
Mr. Mesereau: Was any of this business-related legal work done in your office?
Mark Geragos: Some could have been. I mean, there could have been -- I could have sent -- probably my brother Matthew would have done some work in connection with various things that they were asking about. Loan refinancing, things of that nature. There was also a marketing idea that they were doing or they wanted to pursue.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you having discussions with Mr. LeGrand about Mr. Jackson's business matters?
Mark Geragos: Mr. LeGrand would bring up those issues, but it was really -- that was really Mr. LeGrand's area of -- I guess his purview, so to speak. That was really what his niche was. He's what's called a transactional lawyer who deals with corporate matters, and that was really his expertise.
Mr. Mesereau: In the discussions you had with Konitzer and Weizner about Mr. Jackson's business affairs, do you recall Mr. Jackson ever participating?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Lack of foundation; assumes facts not in evidence as to those conversations.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mark Geragos: It was my understanding that there was -- in fact, it was more than an understanding because I believe that my retainer initially was signed on a power of attorney that --
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as nonresponsive to the question.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have any discussions with Mr. Konitzer about Mr. Jackson's business affairs?
Mark Geragos: To the extent that Mr. Konitzer represented to me that he was running the business affairs.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that what he told you?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have any discussions with Mr. Weizner about Mr. Jackson's business affairs?
Mark Geragos: Not in 2003, in February or March. Like I said, the only contact I really had with Dieter was that first time I saw him briefly, discussed it briefly. But I didn't really have that much contact with him. I really talked mostly with Ronald.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you were retained, you had a retainer agreement signed, correct?
Mark Geragos: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's your normal practice as a lawyer, right?
Mark Geragos: And the State Bar rules generally encourage that, if not require anything that's going to involve a certain amount of money.
Mr. Mesereau: And a retainer agreement basically sets out the terms and conditions under which you'll represent a client as a lawyer, right?
Mark Geragos: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: Who signed your retainer agreement?
Mark Geragos: I believe that it was signed by Konitzer and Weizner on a power of attorney, which I also was provided, that was signed by Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever see Konitzer sign any other documents on behalf of Mr. Jackson while you were representing Mr. Jackson?
Mark Geragos: Not that I can pinpoint. I mean, I -- no, not that I can think of right now.
Mr. Mesereau: And did the power of attorney that you saw appear to give Mr. Konitzer the ability to sign documents for Mr. Jackson?
Mark Geragos: It did -- my understanding of it was that it did.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall at any point in time when that power of attorney was revoked?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object to lack of foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mark Geragos: I believe the power of attorney was revoked about the time that David LeGrand got fired. But that's just my memory as I'm sitting here. I don't have anything to pin that on.
Mr. Mesereau: And I believe you said, Mr. Geragos, that you were under the impression that Konitzer was trying to take over Mr. Jackson's business affairs?
Mark Geragos: It was my perception of Mr. Konitzer that he was the one who was running the business affairs in terms of hands on, and that Mr. LeGrand was the lawyer that was doing the corporate transactional work.
Mr. Mesereau: And based on your involvement in discussions about Mr. Jackson's business, did it appear to you that Mr. Jackson wasn't involved much at all?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; speculative as well.
The Court: Leading; sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet Mr. LeGrand in Las Vegas?
Mark Geragos: I met Mr. LeGrand at Neverland. And I met Mr. LeGrand at another -- at Paul Hastings, I believe, downtown L.A. As I sit here, I don't remember Las Vegas. If you've got something to refresh my memory, maybe, but I don't recall that as I sit here.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, obviously, having represented Mr. Jackson, you're aware of what the charges are in this case, right?
Mark Geragos: I am.
Mr. Mesereau: And you're aware that the prosecutors are claiming there was a conspiracy to commit various crimes on the Arvizos, right?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Mark Geragos: I am aware of that.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever part of any conspiracy to abduct the Arvizo children?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you part of any conspiracy to extort anything from the Arvizos?
Mark Geragos: Absolutely not.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever part of any conspiracy to commit any crime against the Arvizos?
Mark Geragos: Absolutely not. I was trying to prevent a crime against my client.
Mr. Mesereau: And what crime was that?
Mark Geragos: I thought that they were going to shake him down.
Mr. Mesereau: I have no further questions.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Geragos, good afternoon.
Mark Geragos: Good afternoon, Mr. Zonen.
Mr. Zonen: Now, you were retained to represent Mr. Jackson in the early part of February; is that correct?
Mark Geragos: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: Could that have been the latter part of January?
Mark Geragos: I don't think so. But, I mean, if -- I don't want to quibble with you for a couple of days. I've always thought it was -- I've always thought it was February 4th and that I went to Neverland on the 7th. I don't know why, that just sticks in my head.
Mr. Zonen: Now, prior to your being retained, were you familiar or did you know about the documentary “Living with Michael Jackson”?
Mark Geragos: I don't -- I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: At the time that you were retained, did you know about the documentary “Living with Michael Jackson”?
Mark Geragos: At the time that the retainer agreement was signed, yes.
Mr. Zonen: At the time that you were first contacted by somebody --
Mark Geragos: I was going to say --
Mr. Zonen: -- for Michael Jackson's organization about your representing Mr. Jackson, did you know about the documentary “Living with Michael Jackson”?
Mark Geragos: Probably not.
Mr. Zonen: Who was the first person to call you about your representing Mr. Jackson?
Mark Geragos: I think it was a lawyer from Paul Hastings, the same guy I said I've got a mental block on the name, who said that one of his partners was an ex-U.S. Attorney who had a case with me and wanted to know if I was interested in it.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Mark Geragos: I just don't remember. I just don't remember the name. And it was -- it could have been -- could he have called me in late January? I suppose he could have. I just don't remember.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if that was before the screening of the documentary “Living with Michael Jackson”?
Mark Geragos: I have no idea.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know when “Living with Michael Jackson” was screened?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: Either in the United States or in England?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know -- did you know the content of the documentary “Living with Michael Jackson”?
Mark Geragos: At what time?
Mr. Zonen: At the time that it was aired in the United States.
Mark Geragos: Well, you'd have to tell me when it was aired and then I'd tell you.
Mr. Zonen: I guess you didn't see it, then; is that correct?
Mark Geragos: Well, no, I saw it. But I didn't watch it when it was aired. I --
Mr. Zonen: All right. When you were contacted by somebody --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection, Your Honor. He's cutting off the witness.
Mr. Zonen: Was your answer completed?
Mark Geragos: All I was going to say is, I remember watching it for the first time when somebody sent it -- I asked that they send me a copy of the videotape. I was aware of it before I watched it the first time because it was probably a subject of one of these conference calls.
Mr. Zonen: And -- all right. Now, when is the first time you spoke with your client, Mr. Jackson?
Mark Geragos: Would have been probably that day at Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: There's no question that your client was Michael Jackson; is that right?
Mark Geragos: My client was Michael Jackson.
Mr. Zonen: It was not Ronald Konitzer?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: It was not Dieter Weizner?
Mark Geragos: Right.
Mr. Zonen: It was not Marc Schaffel?
Mark Geragos: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: Nor was it Vinnie or Frank?
Mark Geragos: Clearly it was not.
Mr. Zonen: And at all times you understood that you represented Michael Jackson alone?
Mark Geragos: I did.
Mr. Zonen: You did not represent the enterprise Neverland Valley Entertainment?
Mark Geragos: I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did not represent any of Michael Jackson's corporate interests?
Mark Geragos: I did not.
Mr. Zonen: And you represented Michael Jackson for purposes of assuring that he avoided criminal liability and liability with regards to custody of his children; is that correct?
Mark Geragos: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: Your concern was that his children might be taken away from him?
Mark Geragos: That was one of my concerns.
Mr. Zonen: Your concern was that he might be prosecuted for some criminal matter?
Mark Geragos: I think initially my concern was -- were the children and any allegation of the fitness of him as a parent, because that was a subject of a lot of the media firestorm surrounding him at that point.
Mr. Zonen: Was that because of his allegedly dangling his youngest child over a second-story balcony in a hotel in Germany?
Mark Geragos: I think that that's what started some of that, but then the -- there was -- with the documentary, there was the same usual suspects hurling allegations at him about his fitness once the documentary came out.
Mr. Zonen: All right. But are we talking about simply neglect of his own children, or are we talking about his relationship with other children?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Misstates the evidence; lack of foundation; leading.
The Court: Overruled.
Mark Geragos: I was concerned about his children and his maintaining his relationship with his children.
Mr. Zonen: But the issues that you were dealing with as a consequence of that documentary, “Living with Michael Jackson”, had to do with how he interacted with his own children, correct?
Mark Geragos: The issues dealt with the fact that there were people who were calling for DCFS to take the children out of the house --
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Mark Geragos: -- and to conduct an investigation. That was what -- that was what was the overriding concern initially.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time, you had an opportunity to either read the transcript of that documentary, “Living with Michael Jackson”, or view it; is that correct?
Mark Geragos: I viewed it. I didn't read the transcript.
Mr. Zonen: Did you view it before you arrived at Neverland?
Mark Geragos: I couldn't tell you, as I sit here, whether I did it before or after. It was sometime within a very close period of time.
Mr. Zonen: At the time that you were at Neverland, you saw Ed Bradley there; is that right?
Mark Geragos: That's right.
Mr. Zonen: Ed Bradley is somebody you recognized as being one of the commentators from 60 Minutes; is that right?
Mark Geragos: That's right.
Mr. Zonen: You also saw an entire film crew from 60 Minutes?
Mark Geragos: That's right.
Mr. Zonen: 60 Minutes you were familiar with. You had seen it in the past; is that right?
Mark Geragos: That's right.
Mr. Zonen: You were a little concerned about Michael Jackson appearing on 60 Minutes; is that right?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Had you had a conversation with Michael Jackson prior to your arrival at Neverland on that date?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if that date was the 7th of February?
Mark Geragos: I think I stated before that that date sticks in my mind. If that is a Saturday, that would be my guess. My best guess. I believe that when you executed the -- or the officers executed the search warrant, they took some gate logs also. I don't know if the gate logs are accurate, but I later saw where I signed it on the day that I got there.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a conversation with Mr. Jackson on the 7th?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you have a sense of the content of the documentary “Living with Michael Jackson”?
Mark Geragos: At that point, I was more concerned with what -- the fact that he was going to sit down with 60 Minutes and what the content of that was going to be. I spent most of my time talking with and trying to weasel out the information from the producers as to what was going to be the ground rules, which they said there were none. But the content, where they were headed, what they were trying to do, that was my concern.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ask any questions of Michael Jackson about whether he had been sleeping with boys during your conversation with him on the 7th of February at Neverland?
Mark Geragos: No, I did --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading; lack of foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Mark Geragos: No, I did not start questioning him about whether he was sleeping with boys when I was up there.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know, at the time that you were at Neverland on the 7th of February, assuming that is the date, that the issue of him sleeping with boys was, in fact, an issue that had been raised in this documentary?
Mark Geragos: I think that I did know that. I don't know whether it was through the documentary or whether it was from the download of information. I think I probably had that information.
Mr. Zonen: Did you understand, at the time that you were at Neverland on the 7th of February, that Gavin Arvizo was one of the children it was believed that Mr. Jackson was sleeping with?
Mark Geragos: I don't know that -- when you say one of the children that he was sleeping with, I'm not clear on what you're -- what you're implying there. I knew that Gavin Arvizo, when I was up there, was somebody who was reputed to be in the documentary. But I don't know that anybody said, “Hey, Michael Jackson is sleeping with Gavin Arvizo”. I don't think that that happened. And I certainly -- as I sit here today, I don't know if Gavin Arvizo says in the documentary, “Yeah, I was sleeping with Michael Jackson”.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as nonresponsive as to what he knows today. The question dealt with on the 7th of February. And move to strike.
The Court: All right. I'll strike from -- well, actually, I won't. He actually says as he sits here today, he can't remember what he knew then, so the objection is overruled.
Mr. Zonen: All right. But on the 7th of February of 2003, you were aware that one of the issues that you were dealing with, as his lawyer, was the issue of whether or not he had been sleeping with a succession of different boys over the last number of years?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. No foundation and misstates the evidence.
The Court: I'll sustain the objection.
Mr. Zonen: Did you understand that Mr. Jackson, in the interview with Mr. Bashir, said, “I slept with all of them”, in reference to a number or succession of boys?
Mark Geragos: On February --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mark Geragos: On February 7th, I don't believe -- I know you asked this. I just don't believe that I can tell you whether I had seen the documentary. I probably had not until after I got back from Neverland is my best guess. So, no, my guess is, as I sit here, but I'm not 100 percent sure of that.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a conversation with Michael Jackson about Michael Jackson doing a press conference in Florida?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know that Michael Jackson had been scheduled to do a press conference in Florida?
Mark Geragos: On what date?
Mr. Zonen: The 7th of February.
Mark Geragos: On the 7th of February. No, I did not know that.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know that Michael Jackson had brought the Arvizo family to Florida to do a press conference?
Mark Geragos: On February 7th, I did not know that.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know, on the 7th of February, that Janet Arvizo had never had a conversation with Michael Jackson other than a brief conversation back in the year 2000?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Misstates the evidence; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead.
Mark Geragos: On February 7th, I can't tell you what Janet Arvizo did with Michael Jackson. The only thing that I can tell you is I saw the Arvizos interacting with --
Mr. Zonen: My question was whether you knew about any conversations between --
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. He cut off the witness again, Your Honor.
Mr. Zonen: It's nonresponsive, I'll object.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to admonish counsel not to cut off the witness.
The Court: I'll strike after the sentence, “The only thing that I can tell you...”. From there on, I'll strike that. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Geragos, did you have a conversation with any employee of Michael Jackson or representative of Michael Jackson directing them to have the Arvizos brought to Florida?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a conversation with Michael Jackson or any representative of Michael Jackson directing that the Arvizos be brought from Florida to Neverland?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know that they were being brought from Florida to Neverland?
Mark Geragos: On February 7th? No.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. That misstates the evidence. Foundation. They weren't being brought anywhere.
The Court: I'm going to sustain the objection as vague.
Mr. Zonen: Were you aware that the Arvizo family was flown from Florida to Santa Barbara County and then driven to Neverland?
Mark Geragos: On February 7th?
Mr. Zonen: Prior to, just prior to February 7th.
Mark Geragos: I'm asking you. Do you mean did I know that on February 7th?
Mr. Zonen: On February 7th did you know that?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you make any inquiry as to what that family was doing there?
Mark Geragos: Later.
Mr. Zonen: When later?
Mark Geragos: Probably middle February.
Mr. Zonen: Two weeks later? A week later?
Mark Geragos: No, by middle February would have been about a week later.
Mr. Zonen: On the 7th of February, did you recommend to your client, Mr. Jackson, that the family, the Arvizo family, be taken home immediately?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: A week later, did you tell Mr. Jackson that the Arvizo family should be taken home immediately?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: At any time during the month of February, did you tell Mr. Jackson that the Arvizo family should be taken home immediately?
Mark Geragos: No, I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any conversation with Mr. Jackson at any time on the 7th of February about the Arvizo family being there on his property?
Mark Geragos: To the extent that this, “He's calling me daddy”, or, “Janet's encouraging him to call me 'daddy'” story was told to me.
Mr. Zonen: Did you talk with Mr. Jackson at any time on the 7th of February about the Arvizo family leaving Neverland?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you talk with Mr. Jackson at any time on the 7th of February about whether or not Gavin was staying in his bedroom?
Mark Geragos: No. Not on the 7th.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know on the 7th of February that there was an issue dealing with boys staying in his bedroom --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
Mr. Zonen: -- that had become quite public?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Misstates the evidence; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: And foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead.
The Court: Do you want the question read back?
Mark Geragos: No. I just don't know what you mean by “an issue”. That it was in the public domain? Yes. I knew it was in the public domain.
Mr. Zonen: And did you discuss it with Mr. Jackson?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: As his attorney and hopeful of avoiding any criminal liability on his behalf, did you tell Mr. Jackson on the 7th of February that he ought to refrain from having young boys come into his bedroom?
Mark Geragos: No. I didn't give him, as I told you, any advice right then and there. I was -- the first time I met him, I was trying to do an investigation. I was also trying to stop the 60 Minutes interview, once I got a sense that it was not going to be a warm and fuzzy piece.
Mr. Zonen: All right. You've seen 60 Minutes before, haven't you?
Mark Geragos: If it's Morley Safer, you tend to get a different piece than if it's Ed Bradley or Mike Wallace.
Mr. Zonen: So even without knowing the issues, as soon as you saw it was Ed Bradley, you assumed it wouldn't be warm or fuzzy, right?
Mark Geragos: I've watched Ed Bradley do some pieces that weren't exactly hard-hitting.
Mr. Zonen: Now, at any time within the next seven days after the 7th, the next week after the 7th, did you ever tell Mr. Jackson that he would be well-served by keeping young boys out of his bedroom?
Mark Geragos: I don't know that I talked directly to him that following week. The only conversations that I had for the next six weeks were usually over the phone and fairly brief.
Mr. Zonen: With Mr. Jackson?
Mark Geragos: If he was on the phone, briefly. But they weren't extensive.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Do you know if you had any conversations with Mr. Jackson over the next seven days over the telephone?
Mark Geragos: I couldn't tell you. I don't think so.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if you had any conversations with Mr. Jackson over the next 14 days?
Mark Geragos: Probably one.
Mr. Zonen: Just one conversation?
Mark Geragos: Probably one.
Mr. Zonen: Can I assume that that conversation did address the issue of whether or not boys were still sleeping in his bedroom?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mark Geragos: No, I don't think that the discussion revolved around whether boys sleep in his bedroom.
Mr. Zonen: Can I assume within the next 14 days after the 7th, in other words, up to the 21st of February, that you had by this point seen, personally viewed, the documentary “Living with Michael Jackson”, the Martin Bashir documentary?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And you had seen at that point Mr. Jackson's admission to sleeping with boys; is that right?
Mark Geragos: Well, when you say “admission to sleeping with boys”, what are you saying? The statement that boys will stay in his room?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Mark Geragos: Okay. Are you implying that's necessarily something sexual?
Mr. Zonen: I don't believe it's appropriate for me to be answering questions, Mr. Geragos. Let's go back to the question again.
Mark Geragos: I'm confused as to when you say “sleeping”, “boys sleeping in his room”, I didn't -- I didn't think -- my concern was, Mr. Zonen --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as nonresponsive.
Mark Geragos: I was trying to answer it.
Mr. Mesereau: Cutting off the witness, Your Honor. Objection.
The Court: Okay. Everyone, we're going to have a time-out.
Mr. Zonen: Next question?
The Court: No. I want you to drop down about two degrees and.... I ride horses, and we wait for the head to relax. Go ahead. Relax a minute. All right.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Geragos, when you watched that film, you did see the portion where Mr. Jackson refers to sleeping with boys; is that right?
Mark Geragos: Mr. Zonen, as I sit here today, I don't remember seeing in that documentary - I'll take your word for it - that he said, “sleeping with boys”. The one thing that I drew from seeing Michael Jackson on February 7th and seeing the kids there was a gentleman who, to my mind, was almost childlike in his love for kids. I didn't see anything nefarious. I didn't see anything that struck me as potentially criminal. But I did see somebody who appeared to me to be ripe as a target. And so I took action that I thought was to protect him.
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Move to strike the last part of the answer.
The Court: I'll strike after, “I don't remember seeing in that documentary...”.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Geragos, do you recall the documentary where he said he slept with Macaulay Culkin?
Mark Geragos: No. As I sit here, I don't remember him -- I wasn't fixated on whether or not he slept with Macaulay Culkin. I really -- that was not a concern of mine.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recall him saying he shared a bed with boys?
Mark Geragos: I know that he has said that since then. I know -- I've sat next to him, or in the same room when he said that, so I know that; that I know that he said that.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recall seeing the portion of the documentary where he's sitting next to Gavin Arvizo?
Mark Geragos: That I have a vivid memory of.
Mr. Zonen: And in that portion of that documentary, he's holding Gavin Arvizo's hand?
Mark Geragos: I have a vivid memory of that.
Mr. Zonen: And Gavin Arvizo is resting his head on Mr. Jackson's shoulder?
Mark Geragos: Right.
Mr. Zonen: Gavin Arvizo shared a room with Mr. Jackson; is that correct?
Mark Geragos: I -- you're telling me --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer. Do you want the question read back?
Mark Geragos: No. If what you're telling is Gavin Arvizo spent the night in his room --
Mr. Zonen: Were you aware of that?
Mark Geragos: I know that that's one of the things that's been claimed, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever ask Mr. Jackson if that was true, that Gavin Arvizo shared his bed or spent the night in his room?
Mark Geragos: I think we discussed that.
Mr. Zonen: What did he tell you?
Mark Geragos: That nothing happened.
Mr. Zonen: No, I didn't ask you that. What did he tell you about whether or not he shared his room or his bed?
Mark Geragos: What he has consistently said the entire time that I represented him, which is that he didn't do anything; that there was nothing untoward; that there was nothing sexual; and that if somebody spends the night in his room, that that was just an act of unconditional love. That it wasn't anything that you're getting in here and --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to move to strike as nonresponsive.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. He cut off the witness.
The Court: You did cut him off. Your question called for the answer he's giving, so --
Mr. Mesereau: May he continue to give his answer, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes, he may.
Mark Geragos: The problem was, Mr. Zonen, as I saw it, when people say he's sleeping with somebody in his room, the jump is, with a lot of people, that that is something that is awful, that is something that is really, really bad because it must be sexual.
The Court: Just a minute. You're lecturing the jury. Let's back up. I'll strike that. Do you want to go back to the question again?
Mr. Zonen: I'd like to ask a new one.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Geragos, did you ask Mr. Jackson specifically if Gavin Arvizo had ever spent the night in his room?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Beyond the scope and foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Mark Geragos: Yes. And he said nothing ever happened.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you that Gavin Arvizo had spent the night in his room?
Mark Geragos: He said he may have spent the night in the room, like a lot of the other boys did, and nothing happened.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you how many nights Gavin Arvizo spent in his room while he was there?
Mark Geragos: No. I didn't ask him.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you whether or not Gavin Arvizo specifically shared a bed with him?
Mark Geragos: I didn't ask him about sharing a bed. I asked him in the room, I asked him if anything happened. His answer was, “No”. Based on my observations --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as nonresponsive.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. He cut off the witness.
Mr. Zonen: Maybe we better resolve this, I think.
The Court: Just a moment. The ruling is that, “Based on my observations..”., that will be stricken. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: Now, you never asked him at any time whether or not he shared a bed with Gavin Arvizo?
Mark Geragos: I may have later on, after the arrest. I assumed we were still talking sometime in February --
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Mark Geragos: -- of '03.
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Mark Geragos: February of '03, no. After the arrest, yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, during the next two weeks, did you have any other conversations with Michael Jackson about Gavin Arvizo?
Mark Geragos: Other than the ones we've talked about, no. Probably not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever tell Michael Jackson that the Arvizo family should be taken home as soon as possible?
Mark Geragos: In February of '03, no.
Mr. Zonen: Did you come to learn that the Arvizo family was spending a great deal of time at Neverland during the month of February?
Mark Geragos: No, I came to learn that Janet Arvizo was making accusations about Dieter.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained. Stricken.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Geragos, did you come to learn that the Arvizo family was spending a great deal of time at Neverland during the month of February?
Mark Geragos: Did I learn that in February?
Mr. Zonen: In February.
Mark Geragos: Probably, yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you immediately call Mr. Jackson and tell him that the Arvizo family should be taken back to their home in East Los Angeles?
Mark Geragos: No. I think I told him that in March, or told Ronald that in March; that they should -- they should cut ties.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, at some point in time, you directed that your investigator have an interview with the Arvizo family?
Mark Geragos: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: And I think you said, “Do it yesterday”, right?
Mark Geragos: He said, “When do you want it done?” And I said, “Like yesterday”.
Mr. Zonen: As quickly as he can possibly do it?
Mark Geragos: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: This is Brad Miller?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Brad Miller has been your investigator for some number of years; is that correct?
Mark Geragos: I think at that time Brad Miller I had used on three or four other cases. I've used him on a number since.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell Brad Miller to tape-record that interview?
Mark Geragos: I believe I told him to tape-record the interview, that I wanted a taped statement by the Arvizos.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell him to turn off the tape-recorder and not to record certain pieces of information?
Mark Geragos: Absolutely not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever listen to that tape?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. It is true, is it not, that when he asked the question about whether or not Gavin slept in the same bed with Michael Jackson, Gavin did not answer the question and Brad Miller then turned off the tape-recorder?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Misstates the evidence; no foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mark Geragos: I'm not so sure that that's what happened.
Mr. Zonen: What is your recollection of hearing that tape-recording?
Mark Geragos: It appears to me, in listening to that tape, that the tape was turned on, off, at least two or three times. And I can't tell you as I sit here what the question was before each one. But the tape is taped and is turned off and then turned on, so I'd agree with you as to that extent.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ask Brad Miller if he specifically turned off the tape-recorder about the time that he asked the question of whether or not Gavin was sleeping with Michael Jackson?
Mark Geragos: I -- you bet I did.
Mr. Zonen: You're aware that other children have accused Michael Jackson of molesting them. You're aware of that?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; argumentative; Court ruling; move to admonish counsel.
The Court: Just a moment. The objection is overruled. The answer is, “Yes”.
Mr. Zonen: All right. You're aware that back in 1993, there were -- there was one lawsuit that was filed against Michael Jackson that was settled on behalf of a child named Jordan Chandler?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; beyond the scope.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. You're aware that there was another incident of a resolution of a claim against Michael Jackson involving a child by the name of Jason Francia?
Mark Geragos: No. Not at -- if you're talking February and March of '03, no.
Mr. Zonen: You didn't learn that until some later time?
Mark Geragos: Right.
Mr. Zonen: All right. But at the time that you were meeting with Mr. Jackson on the 7th, you were aware of the incident involving Jordie Chandler; is that correct?
Mark Geragos: I knew --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: I don't believe the last time I said in February. I may stand corrected if I'm wrong.
The Court: Well, that could be. I'll allow the question with that understanding.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Mr. Zonen: Was that, in fact, something you knew about on the 7th of February?
Mark Geragos: I think so, yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you ask Mr. Jackson about that allegation?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; beyond the scope.
The Court: Overruled.
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: Were you concerned when you saw Gavin Arvizo there, a child of the same age as Jordie Chandler?
Mark Geragos: I don't know that I knew that Gavin Arvizo was the same age as Jordie Chandler. I suppose, obviously, at one point they were the same age, but I don't know that that was something that ever went through my mind.
Mr. Zonen: Were you concerned about the presence of this child at Neverland?
Mark Geragos: Well, I was concerned about accusations that were being made, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Accusations by whom?
Mark Geragos: The -- at the time, in February of '03, there was a swirl of publicity, and there were accusations that were being made by numerous people that his children should be taken out of the home.
The Court: Just a moment. Let's take a break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Zonen: Thank you.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Geragos --
The Bailiff: Oh, your microphone.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Geragos, did you keep copies of notes of conversations with Mr. Jackson?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you make any notes of your conversations with Mr. Jackson?
Mark Geragos: Probably not.
Mr. Zonen: You didn't make any notes at all of any of your --
Mark Geragos: Probably not. I generally don't do that with my clients. I generally just talk to them.
Mr. Zonen: Did you make notes of any of your conversations with any of the other individuals who were working for Mr. Jackson at the time?
Mark Geragos: I don't think so.
Mr. Zonen: You made no notes of any conversation with Dieter Weizner?
Mark Geragos: Dieter Weizner, as I explained before, I didn't really talk to in February or March, other than on that one occasion. Ronald I would talk to, but I'm not a big note-taker.
Mr. Zonen: No notes of conversations with Ronald Konitzer?
Mark Geragos: I wouldn't say “no”, but none that I can remember taking.
Mr. Zonen: Do you think that your file might have notes of conversations with Ronald Konitzer?
Mark Geragos: To be honest, I'd have to look.
Mr. Zonen: Do you think that your file would have notes of conversations with Mark Schaffel?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: How about Frank Cascio?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: How about Vinnie Amen?
Mark Geragos: I don't know that I ever had -- unless he was standing with Frank when I talked with Frank, I don't know that I ever had a conversation directly with him. Maybe when he was with Frank, but, no, I wouldn't have notes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any e-mail communications with Michael Jackson?
Mark Geragos: No, I don't believe so.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have any e-mail communications with any of the other named people, the people I just named?
Mark Geragos: Probably Ronald would be on -- e-mails that would come from David LeGrand would have Ronald's name on them as well.
Mr. Zonen: So you would have kept communications between yourself and David LeGrand through e-mail?
Mark Geragos: No, I wouldn't have kept them, but I would have had them at one point. I don't know that I would have kept them. Like I say, I would have had them if they had sent them to me, but probably would have deleted after I got whatever information I wanted.
Mr. Zonen: Is it your habit and custom to print out copies of your e-mails and keep them?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: Is it your habit and custom to keep your e-mails electronically stored in your computer?
Mark Geragos: No. If it's something particularly important, I'll just click over and save it into Word Perfect and then save it in the file, but I generally do not keep the e-mails segregated with whatever else.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have a Word Perfect file on Michael Jackson?
Mark Geragos: I believe that I do.
Mr. Zonen: Does it contain e-mail communications?
Mark Geragos: I don't think I had any e-mails with him. I'd have to double-check to be sure, but I don't think I did.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have e-mail communications with Brad Miller?
Mark Geragos: I think that I did.
Mr. Zonen: Did you save those e-mail communications?
Mark Geragos: I don't think that I did.
Mr. Zonen: You might have?
Mark Geragos: Maybe.
Mr. Zonen: Would it be your habit and custom to title those “E-mail communications” with your investigator and put them in your file as a Word Perfect document?
Mark Geragos: If I looked in Word Perfect, that's -- if it was something important and I saved it into Word Perfect, that would be the way to tell.
Mr. Zonen: Is it the case that you're the only lawyer remaining in Los Angeles County who still uses Word Perfect? (Laughter.)
Mark Geragos: Probably so. But it's the 11 series, so --
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Geragos, I'd like to show you an exhibit. Could I approach the witness?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Number 347, would you take a look at that, please?
Mark Geragos: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: That's an exhibit containing two notes; is that correct?
Mark Geragos: Yes. It's got two blue pieces of paper with handwriting on it.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recognize that as your former client's handwriting?
Mr. Mesereau: Excuse me, could I see what this is?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: It's admitted in evidence, Your Honor.
The Court: He just needs to see what it is.
Mr. Zonen: I understand. Thank you.
Mr. Zonen: Do you recognize that as Mr. Jackson's handwriting?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: Were you familiar with Mr. Jackson's handwriting?
Mark Geragos: Familiar with his signature and familiar with some of the way he signs off. But not -- this does not appear -- there's nothing about it that I recognize.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Would you read those two notes, please, out loud?
Mark Geragos: “But you have to really be honest in your heart that I am your dad and will take care” -- “good care of you, Dad. I want you to have a great time in Florida. I'm very happy to be your daddy. Blanket, Prince and Paris are your brothers and sisters. Love, Dad”.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Would you be surprised to learn that that is, in fact, a note or two notes written by Mr. Jackson to Gavin Arvizo?
Mark Geragos: I don't know. Would I be surprised? I don't know. I probably would be surprised.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Mr. Geragos, if, in fact, those are notes written by the defendant to Gavin Arvizo, that would be inconsistent with what you tell us he told you about not wanting to be called “Dad”; is that right?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Misstates the evidence. He said someone else told him.
Mark Geragos: Yeah --
The Court: Just a moment. And no speaking objections, Mr. Mesereau.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, sir.
The Court: All right. You may answer. I'm not sure you answered or you were responding to Mr. Mesereau, so --
Mr. Zonen: Should the question be reread, Your Honor?
The Court: Reread the question.
Mark Geragos: I believe that the -- that -- I don't know what dates these were written on, and I don't know that it's his handwriting. Are you asking me to assume it's his handwriting? If I assume it's his handwriting, yes, that would be -- that would be surprising to me.
Mr. Zonen: Now, to your knowledge, the only trip that the Arvizos ever took to Florida with Mr. Jackson was the one that they took just prior to arriving in Neverland on the 7th; is that correct?
Mark Geragos: From the discovery, that's my understanding.
Mr. Zonen: You have no other information that the Arvizo family ever took any other trip to Florida with Mr. Jackson?
Mark Geragos: Right. I don't have any other information that they took any other trip.
Mr. Zonen: Do you have any information that the Arvizo family took a trip anywhere with Mr. Jackson other than Florida and Neverland?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: Now, I asked you a number of questions about your giving counsel to your client about the Arvizo family leaving Neverland. When did you finally tell your client that it's time for the Arvizo family to go home?
Mark Geragos: I think I told -- I don't know that it was Michael or Ronald, or maybe on the same phone call, but sometime in March that -- in March of '03.
Mr. Zonen: Now, were you aware in March of '03 that the Arvizo family was still at Neverland?
Mark Geragos: I think they had come and gone, was my understanding back then, in March of '03.
Mr. Zonen: At the time of the conversation with Mr. Jackson -- let me strike that and reask that. Did you finally have a conversation with Michael Jackson about the fact that the Arvizos should not be at Neverland?
Mark Geragos: I had a conversation -- my only hesitancy is when you say was it with Michael Jackson. I don't think it was with Michael. I think the conversation was with either Ronald or Brad saying that, “This is not a good situation”. I don't think that the conversation was with Michael.
Mr. Zonen: Well, Brad Miller was working for Michael Jackson at the time?
Mark Geragos: Brad Miller was working for me.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Mark Geragos: Brad Miller would be a liaison. If I were in trial, I would have Brad communicate messages, but Brad was not talking to Michael. Brad would have been talking to one of the people that I mentioned.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Is there a reason you didn't call Michael Jackson directly, given that he is your -- was your client --
Mark Geragos: Well --
Mr. Zonen: -- and tell him to send the Arvizo family home? Is there a reason you didn't do that?
Mark Geragos: Because I don't believe, at the time when I had that conversation, that Michael was even at Neverland. I don't think Michael was there then.
Mr. Zonen: Did you make any effort to determine when Michael Jackson would be at Neverland?
Mark Geragos: Well, when you say, “make an effort to determine”, I believe at one point he was out of state and -- in March, and I was informed of that, and so that's -- that was the basis for my opinion.
Mr. Zonen: Did you --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. He's cutting off the witness.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: May the witness complete his answer, Your Honor?
The Court: Had you completed your answer?
Mark Geragos: No, but I forgot what I was going to say.
Mr. Zonen: Did you make an effort to contact Michael Jackson out of state?
Mark Geragos: No -- well, I think that I was told he was out of state. I think it was one of those brief conversations when he was on with somebody else. I was having a conversation with somebody else, he was either in the room or got on for a minute. But, no, that was not -- I didn't consider that -- that I was dictating to him what he needed to do. I was there, I thought, to do an investigation. I was there to make sure that nothing unfair happened to him and his kids. That was my role.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time around the middle of the month of February, did you learn that the family had left Neverland?
Mark Geragos: This was what was objected to before. You want me to answer it now?
Mr. Zonen: I'd like to know if you learned at some time in the middle of February that the family had left Neverland. Yes or no?
Mark Geragos: Yes, I was told by somebody that the family had left Neverland.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Okay. Now, were you aware that there were telephone calls being made from Frank Cascio to Janet Arvizo asking her to return to Neverland?
Mark Geragos: I found that out later. I did not know it at the time.
Mr. Zonen: Are you aware that your investigator, Brad Miller, tape-recorded one or more of those conversations?
Mark Geragos: I'm aware of one. I found that out when the police searched Brad's office and got that tape, and later learned what that was.
Mr. Zonen: Did you direct Mr. Miller to tape-record those telephone calls?
Mark Geragos: I said I was aware of one.
Mr. Zonen: Did you direct Brad Miller --
Mark Geragos: And I did not direct him to tape a phone call surreptitiously. The only tape that I directed him to do that was an audiotape, was the one where I said, “I want you to sit down and interview them”. And I also told him, “I want a log of where they are”. I did not tell him to tape Frank Tyson or that one phone call.
Mr. Zonen: Did Mr. Miller tell you about the conversation that he tape-recorded between Frank Cascio or Frank Tyson and Janet Arvizo?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence; no foundation; misstates the evidence as well.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mark Geragos: Brad later told me, when we were -- you and I and Mr. Sneddon were litigating this issue, and I asked him about it, that the reason he did it is because Frank had led him to believe --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object at this time to --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. He's cutting off the witness.
Mr. Zonen: Well, I --
The Court: Overruled. The question is simply whether or not he told you about tape-recording the conversation.
Mark Geragos: Do you want me to answer “yes” or “no”? Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Now, when was the conversation that you had with Brad Miller where he acknowledged tape-recording that conversation? When was that?
Mark Geragos: It would have been substantially after the tape was seized from his office.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Back during the month of February, was Brad Miller informing you as to the content of his investigation?
Mark Geragos: He was -- he was pretty dil --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Leading, Your Honor. Vague as to time.
Mr. Zonen: I said February.
Mr. Mesereau: Can I assume 2003?
The Court: Just a moment. Just a moment. All right. I'll overrule the objection. Do you want the question read back? I'll order it read back.
Mark Geragos: I remember. I was going to answer. He was being fairly diligent about telling me. He did not tell me about that one particular call until after it was seized when I started to question him about it.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you about any conversations that took place between Frank Cascio and Janet Arvizo?
Mark Geragos: That conversation.
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you that in the middle part of February, Frank Cascio was trying to get Janet Arvizo back to Neverland Ranch?
Mark Geragos: No. That's not what he told me. Do you want me to tell you what he told me?
Mr. Zonen: Did he tell you that anybody from Neverland Ranch was making efforts to get Janet Arvizo back?
Mark Geragos: No. He told me that he was --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as nonresponsive.
Mark Geragos: No.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Geragos, did you have conversations with any employee of Michael Jackson on whether or not the Arvizo family should be tape -- videotaped and whether or not that videotape should be included in a commercial production to be aired on television?
Mark Geragos: I was told that they were going to be videotaped, and it would have been by David and/or Ronald. And I instructed Brad to go to the videotaping and to remain there until he got a copy of the videotape.
Mr. Zonen: Were you consulted at any time by any employee of Michael Jackson as to whether or not waivers would be necessary for such a thing?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: Were you consulted by anybody employed by Michael Jackson on the question of whether or not any member of the Arvizo family should be compensated for their involvement in this tape?
Mark Geragos: I was told that they wanted to be compensated for the tape.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And did you tell -- who was that who told you that?
Mark Geragos: As I sit here, I would just be guessing. I know that I was told that they wanted to be compensated for the tape.
Mr. Zonen: And did you tell that person that that would be an appropriate thing to do, since it was a commercial interest?
Mark Geragos: No. I don't think I did -- had anything to do with it. In fact, I think that that was dealt with -- all of the licensing and everything having to do with the rebuttal was handled by, I think, David and Schaffel.
Mr. Zonen: At the time of the conversation with this person about them wanting to be compensated for this tape, did you ask that person if the Arvizo family was still staying at Neverland Ranch?
Mark Geragos: I don't remember if I did.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know if you told that person that it was not a good idea for these people to be associating with Michael Jackson?
Mark Geragos: Well, I know that I had that conversation.
Mr. Zonen: With whom?
Mark Geragos: I'm sure I've had it with Brad. I'm sure I've had it with Ronald. And I'm positive that at one point I had that conversation with David.
Mr. Zonen: With who?
Mark Geragos: David LeGrand.
Mr. Zonen: With David LeGrand. Did any of them tell you that was difficult to do because Mr. Jackson enjoyed sleeping with Gavin Arvizo?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mark Geragos: No. Nobody told me that.
Mr. Zonen: When did you first learn that there was, in fact, a succession of young boys that had been sleeping with Michael Jackson over the last 15 years?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Misstates the evidence; argumentative; no foundation; move to strike.
The Court: Argumentative; sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever learn about Brett Barnes?
Mark Geragos: Doesn't ring a bell.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever learn about Jordie Chandler?
Mark Geragos: The same person you asked me about earlier --
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Mark Geragos: -- from '93, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Asked and answered.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
The Court: Just a moment.
Mr. Zonen: And in the process of investigating --
The Court: Just a moment. I'm ruling on an objection here.
Mr. Zonen: I'm sorry. I thought you had.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever determine whether or not Jordie Chandler had spent many consecutive nights in bed with Michael Jackson?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Beyond the scope; no foundation; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did you make any investigation into any of the allegations against Michael Jackson that occurred back in 1993 and prior to '93?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Beyond the scope; no foundation; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mark Geragos: Over the break I was given the written waiver, and the written waiver was up through --
Bailiff Cortez: Microphone, sir.
Mark Geragos: The written waiver was up through the time of arrest. To answer that, I would have to go beyond that.
The Court: I didn't understand that the waiver was limited.
Mr. Zonen: Nor did I.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor. If I didn't say that, I meant to. We were going to limit it until up to the time of Mr. Jackson's arrest.
The Court: That's not what you informed all of us. Take the jury out, please.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: Counsel, you didn't inform Mr. Geragos, myself, or anyone else in the courtroom that there was anything other than a waiver of the attorney-client privilege. You didn't indicate there was any limitations on that waiver.
Mr. Mesereau: That's my mistake, Your Honor. I was thinking in terms of the period, relevant time period, not after the arrest, the time he was involved with Mr. Konitzer, Dieter, people like that. That's -- that's my mistake, and I apologize. I didn't think anything was relevant after the arrest.
The Court: They can't hear you talking back there.
Mr. Mesereau: I didn't think anything was relevant after the arrest. And I should have been clear about that. That's my mistake.
The Court: Well, I consider you've made a total, complete waiver on the record. You know, I'm not going to allow you to give with one hand and take away with the other.
Mr. Mesereau: Can I inquire, Your Honor? With all due respect, what would be relevant after the arrest to the time period that's being litigated in court? I don't think there is anything. I believe the allegations --
The Court: The relevancy is one issue, granted. But that's not what we're talking about now. We're talking about the scope of the waiver that you represented that you were -- that existed. Mr. Geragos is on the witness stand. He's answering questions, and then you inform him during a break that there's some limitation. I think relevance has to be dealt with on a question-by-question basis. I'm not dealing with that. I'm dealing with the extent of the waiver that you indicated to the Court and to Mr. Geragos that you have.
Mr. Mesereau: I guess I did do that. And unfortunately, I meant to cover the period involving this case, which I thought was before the arrest, and that was my mistake. I didn't think it included, Your Honor, the period of time following the initial Information. I didn't think that was relevant. I wasn't even considering that. I was thinking about the time period during which the prosecution has elicited testimony and he elicited testimony regarding these alleged events.
The Court: Well, what's your position?
Mr. Zonen: I think it may be appropriate to ask this witness questions about his conversations with the defendant and questions about his involvement in the case even after the arrest. It could have bearing certainly on his conduct here, or conduct that he took after the time of the arrest could have bearing on whether or not he did or didn't do certain things prior to the arrest. I just don't think that we should be restrained from having to limit our questions only up to the time of his arrest.
Mark Geragos: Your Honor, may I just interject one thing, since I'm going to be the one asked the questions? If there's not a waiver from the client --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object.
Mark Geragos: If there's not a waiver --
The Court: No, he has my permission to speak.
Mark Geragos: If there's not a waiver by the client, I believe under State Bar rules, I am completely exposed. And I would inform the Court, without a written waiver, I am not going to answer, even under threat of contempt, any further questions that have to do with anything which is stated at least in the written waiver that I have, under -- or after December of 2003, because I can't put that genie back into the bottle at this point. Frankly, I think technically the arrest was in November of 2003, in the first place, but the letter states December of 2003. And I believe under State Bar rules, I'm not allowed to answer anything unless there's a written waiver that is fully informed by the client.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, we haven't been furnished with a copy of that waiver. We would like to see it, please.
The Court: Go ahead and --
Mr. Mesereau: We have another copy, Your Honor.
Mark Geragos: Do you want to make a copy or --
Mr. Zonen: That's okay.
The Court: The question that was asked was whether or not he'd made an investigation into the 1993 allegations. And that was when he advised us that he had been given a limited waiver. So I guess if the question was whether you'd made any investigation into the allegations about 1993 back in February, that you would be able to answer that question.
Mark Geragos: That's correct, Your Honor. In fact, if the question was limited to anything prior to, I believe it was November -- I want to say 18th or 19th of 2003, anything prior to that date I'm comfortable with and don't have a problem. Anything after that date, I'm going to refuse or decline to answer. Respectfully, of course.
The Court: I'm not quite sure how to deal with it, but one way we can deal with it is that the relevancy of his testimony is based on what happened in February, March, and maybe up to the time of arrest. And then we could complete that testimony, and if you then thought you had some need to go into other areas, we could get some points and authorities on where we stand on the misrepresentation that Mr. Mesereau has made to the Court and to counsel. That way, though, if we take evidence limited in that respect today, we can free counsel up to get back to his trial. I know he's got a trial in Los Angeles that he needs to be at. And if we do it that way, then what I would do is hold you on call to me.
Mark Geragos: I kind of thought I already was.
The Court: Huh?
Mark Geragos: I kind of thought I already was.
The Court: Yeah, you are. But, you know, in the future, and --
Mr. Zonen: Judge, is the Court under the expectation that we're actually going to finish by 2:30 today?
The Court: Uh-huh. Aren't you?
Mr. Zonen: Not optimistically, no. Not with redirect as well. I may finish cross. I don't know that we're going to finish redirect.
The Court: Well, let's see what we do. Sometimes -- anyway, I then will proceed in this fashion, reserving what remedies exist -- what should be done under the circumstances, but we don't waste the last hour, and perhaps we're able to free counsel and perhaps not. Is that an agreeable way to proceed?
Mr. Zonen: It is. And while the jury is out, let me also ask that we be furnished at this time Mr. Geragos's file, at least the file that existed up to the date of the arrest, which would include all of his billing records, his notes, his e-mails, his handwritings, communications and reports. There is a waiver up till that time.
The Court: I'm not going to order that, Counsel. You can use the proper process for that. Now, is that an agreeable way to proceed, Mr. Mesereau, today?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor. And I apologize for the -- it was not intentional, what you've categorized as a misrepresentation. I apologize for that. It was not intentional. I was thinking of the period of the alleged conspiracy.
The Court: People can't hear you.
Mr. Mesereau: I was thinking of the period of the alleged conspiracy. I was not thinking beyond that, and that's my mistake. And I do apologize to the Court.
The Court: All right. We'll see where that gets us. I don't know where that gets us. Let's bring the jury in and see what we can achieve.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: Go ahead, Counsel.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Geragos, the tape-recording of the telephone call that I had asked you about previously, the call between Frank Cascio and Janet Arvizo, you did tell us that you listened to that tape-recording; is that correct?
Mark Geragos: Yes, I -- well, we're right back to where we were before.
The Court: Excuse me. I was just -- let me just take care of something. I'll just have the court reporter mark that. Next question.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Geragos, at some time after that interview that your investigator, Mr. Miller, had with the Arvizo family at your direction, you became aware of the fact that there was going to be a filming of the entire family; is that right?
Mark Geragos: I don't know if it was the whole family, but I was aware there was going to be a videotaping, yes.
Mr. Zonen: And were you aware at that time that that video was going to be used in a commercial production?
Mark Geragos: I knew that the videotaping was going to be -- they were trying to sell it. That's what they were going to do. So if you mean “commercial” that way, yes, they were trying to sell it. I don't know if they had already cut a deal or not.
Mr. Zonen: Was it your understanding that the Arvizos' participation in that video would have commercial value to your client, Mr. Jackson?
Mark Geragos: I don't know if I'm qualified to answer that.
Mr. Zonen: Was that your belief at the time?
Mark Geragos: I don't know that I ever thought about it at the time.
Mr. Zonen: Did anybody ever talk to you about the commercial value of their involvement in this video?
Mark Geragos: Nobody was looking for my advice on commercial value of the rebuttal video.
Mr. Zonen: Did anybody ever consult with you at all about the propriety of using the Arvizo family in this video?
Mark Geragos: I don't know about -- well, I just said if some statements were going to be taped, I wanted a copy.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know that Gavin Arvizo was a cancer survivor?
Mark Geragos: I did not then, when that tape was made.
Mr. Zonen: Well, that tape was made, what, the 20th?
Mark Geragos: I think that tape was made the 20th. And I probably -- probably knew that either on that following day or the day after. But I think very close in time.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Geragos, you had not watched the documentary “Living with Michael Jackson” prior to that?
Mark Geragos: I had, but I had -- I had not investigated records or anything like that. I later got records and confirmed what was being said.
Mr. Zonen: Isn't it true that the documentary “Living with Michael Jackson” has clearly stated that Gavin Arvizo is a cancer survivor?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And you did view that documentary prior to the taping on the 20th?
Mark Geragos: Right, but I wasn't buying anything until I had documentation.
Mr. Zonen: All right. But you had information, at least, that Gavin Arvizo was a cancer survivor; is that right?
Mark Geragos: That's what the claim was.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever ask Michael Jackson if it was true that Gavin Arvizo was a cancer survivor?
Mark Geragos: Not in February of '03.
Mr. Zonen: Of any of the conversations that you had with David LeGrand or Ronald Konitzer, did you ask either one of them if it was true that Gavin Arvizo was a cancer survivor?
Mark Geragos: I think that the discussions were had sometime in February about that subject.
Mr. Zonen: You were aware, were you not, that the filming and presentation and airing of the documentary “Living with Michael Jackson” caused Gavin Arvizo considerable problems in his life?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mark Geragos: I was aware that the claim was made that he was being taunted at school.
Mr. Zonen: And you knew that prior to the 20th of February; is that right?
Mark Geragos: I don't think I knew it prior to the 20th. I think I knew it closer to the end of the month or the beginning of March.
Mr. Zonen: When you viewed the documentary “Living with Michael Jackson”, did you understand at the time that that documentary was going to cause Gavin Arvizo problems?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
Mark Geragos: My --
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mark Geragos: Gavin Arvizo wasn't my client. Michael Jackson was my client.
Mr. Zonen: I understand that.
Mark Geragos: I was not -- you know, I don't want to sound heartless, but I was worried about my client's problems.
Mr. Zonen: I understand you were worried about your clients problems, but did you, in fact, understand that the airing of that documentary could cause Gavin Arvizo problems because of how he was depicted and portrayed?
Mark Geragos: I -- I suppose in retrospect, yes. At the time, I thought that it was -- it would have the opposite effect for him. He would be able to exploit that for money. That was my worry; that he was going to, or the family was going to go sell their story for a six-figure sum. I had that concern.
Mr. Zonen: Now, actually “sell the story”, sell the story to whom?
Mark Geragos: One of the tabloids.
Mr. Zonen: Well, they would have a right to do that, wouldn't they?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: There's absolutely nothing illegal about selling your own story?
Mark Geragos: If it's false, then you have actions that you can take, and that's -- that's one of the reasons I wanted to have the tape, because I didn't want -- I wanted to have them locked into what the truth was and not later sell a false story, because my experience is that the tabloids are not always absolutely accurate.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, that's not necessarily the problem of the Arvizos, whether or not the tabloids are accurate, right?
Mark Geragos: I don't know that I would agree with that.
Mr. Zonen: All right. But the Arvizos certainly would have a right, in this country, to sell their story to anybody?
Mark Geragos: They would. And as I stated, I already had a concern about the Arvizos because of the J.C. Penney lawsuit, so I was not exactly looking at them as being pristine or pure at that point. I had -- for lack of a better word, I had a rather jaded view at that point.
Mr. Zonen: In fact, Michael Jackson was marketing the Arvizo's story for profit; is that true?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mark Geragos: They were trying to do, my understanding, what they called a rebuttal video. And the reason they were trying to do a rebuttal video, I suppose, was, as you indicated, for profit. It wasn't being done pro bono.
Mr. Zonen: And your client believed that if the Arvizos were included and their story was included in this production, it would be more profitable to him; is that true?
Mark Geragos: Actually, I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence; foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Mark Geragos: Actually, I don't know what my client believed. All I know is when I heard that they were going to be included, I wanted to have a copy of the statements, the videotaped statements. I did not specifically talk to Michael about, “Are you doing this for money?” “Is this something that you have a belief we're going to use them for marketing?” or anything of that nature.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a conversation with anybody at Hamid Moslehi's home -- easy for me to say.
Mark Geragos: Common spelling.
Mr. Zonen: -- (continuing) Hamid Moslehi's home on the 19th of February of 2003?
Mark Geragos: I could have, if Brad was there. It would have made sense that Brad might have called me and said, “They're not giving me the videotape”, because they didn't give me the videotape.
Mr. Zonen: Did you at any time during the evening of the 19th, into the early morning hours of the 20th, give any direction to any employee of Michael Jackson about what they should ask or what they shouldn't ask --
Mark Geragos: Absolutely --
Mr. Zonen: -- the Arvizo family?
Mark Geragos: Absolutely not.
Mr. Zonen: Did anybody consult with you about the script that would be used for the Arvizo family?
Mark Geragos: I didn't know that there was a script.
Mr. Zonen: Did anybody ask you whether or not the Arvizos should be specifically asked questions about whether Gavin was molested?
Mark Geragos: I specifically said, “I want copies of the videotape”. I do not believe that I talked to Hamid. And I can't pronounce his last name.
Mr. Zonen: Moslehi.
Mark Geragos: Easy for you to say. And I don't believe that I talked to anybody else that evening but Brad. I could be mistaken. But that -- my memory is that I would have talked to Brad; that Brad told me that they weren't giving up a videotape, or that it was getting late, or I told him, “I don't want to talk to you anymore. Don't call me anymore. It's late. I've got to go to bed”.
Mr. Zonen: Did you talk to Mark Schaffel that night?
Mark Geragos: I don't think so. I think I might have talked to Schaffel the next day to find out why we didn't get a copy of the videotape.
Mr. Zonen: Did you talk to Christian Robinson?
Mark Geragos: I don't think I've ever talked to Christian Robinson. At least back in February or March of 2003, I don't believe I've talked to Christian Robinson.
Mr. Zonen: Did you talk to Vicki Podberesky that night?
Mark Geragos: I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you refer anybody to Vicki Podberesky?
Mark Geragos: I think Brad called and said that --
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Geragos, did you refer anybody to Vicki Podberesky?
Mark Geragos: I was trying to answer the question. Brad called and asked for a referral. I did not refer to Vicki Podberesky. I referred to Michael Nasatir. Vicki Podberesky is Michael's partner.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And you referred Brad Miller to Michael Nasatir; is that right?
Mark Geragos: Brad said that Janet wanted a lawyer. I said, “I can't represent Janet. My firm's not going to represent Janet. Call Mike Nasatir and see if it's something he can handle”.
Mr. Zonen: All right. You were the one who then gave Brad Miller the name of Mike Nasatir's law firm; is that correct?
Mark Geragos: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: You didn't say “Vicki Podberesky”?
Mark Geragos: I did not say “Vicki Podberesky”. I said “Mike Nasatir”.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a conversation with Vicki Podberesky that night?
Mark Geragos: I don't believe it was that night. But if she says it was, I would defer to her. My memory is that I talked to Mike Nasatir.
Mr. Zonen: Did you talk to Mike Nasatir that night?
Mark Geragos: Might have. Might have said, “I'm referring over a case”, or “Brad's going to call you. Talk to him”, you know, “Do whatever you have to do”.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell Mike Nasatir that you would be financially responsible for his bill?
Mark Geragos: Absolutely not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell him that Michael Jackson would be financially responsible?
Mark Geragos: Absolutely not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know who was going to be responsible for his bill?
Mark Geragos: It wasn't my firm. It wasn't my business.
Mr. Zonen: Did it come up in the conversation with Brad Miller?
Mark Geragos: No. Why would it -- no.
Mr. Zonen: Now, at this point, you understood that Janet Arvizo did not have a lot of money?
Mark Geragos: I don't know that I understood that. I was aware of a J.C. Penney lawsuit. I was aware that she had a boyfriend who seemed to be making very good money. So, no, I'm not aware that she was completely limited in terms of her funding.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever make any effort to determine whether or not she was going to have to pay a retainer to the law firm of Mr. Nasatir?
Mark Geragos: Absolutely not. It wasn't my business.
Mr. Zonen: You did have a conversation with Mr. Nasatir either that night or the next morning?
Mark Geragos: I believe it was the next morning, but I could be mistaken. It might have been that night. And I believe the conversation was that, “I referred somebody over, and this is the name and the number”. And, you know, “Handle it however you want to handle it”.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ask Mr. Nasatir to contact you after his interview with Janet Arvizo and tell you the content of that interview?
Mark Geragos: If -- if I talked to him that night, I probably would have said, “Let me know what happens”, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Would you have asked him to tell you about the content of the conversation?
Mark Geragos: I would have wanted to know what was being said, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Would you have asked him to get an express waiver of attorney-client privilege from Janet Arvizo so that he could talk to you about the exact content of that conversation?
Mark Geragos: No. I wouldn't have advised him how to practice law. He's a -- I think a certified specialist in criminal law, and I would assume he would know that.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell Brad Miller that you wanted Brad Miller to become informed of the conversation that Janet Arvizo was having with this attorney?
Mark Geragos: No, it was the opposite. Janet kept telling Brad she wanted him there.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have --
Mark Geragos: And Brad said he couldn't go, and that's why he volunteered Asaf instead.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a conversation with Brad Miller wherein you specifically asked Brad Miller to get as much information as he could of the conversation between Janet Arvizo and the Nasatir lawyer?
Mark Geragos: No. In fact, I -- my understanding was, I told them, “I can't get in the middle of that. Refer it out”. And she kept asking Brad to attend with her at that interview.
Mr. Zonen: Did Brad Miller tell you specifically that the interview they were referring to was a Department of Child Family Services interview?
Mark Geragos: I think he did, yes.
Mr. Zonen: Did you understand that that interview was existing, was taking place because of concerns about whether or not her children were being exposed to Michael Jackson?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mark Geragos: I -- I learned that after the fact, after the interview.
Mr. Zonen: Who is it who told you that Janet Arvizo was going to have an interview with the Department of Child & Family Services representatives?
Mark Geragos: I believe it was Brad.
Mr. Zonen: And he told you that that night?
Mark Geragos: I believe so. I believe that it was that night that he said she was asking him to go with her to the interview.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know why this interview was conducted at two o'clock in the morning, hours before the start of the interview with Janet Arvizo and the Department of Child Family Services?
Mark Geragos: I have no idea --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mark Geragos: I have no idea why it was 2:00 in the morning. I do have a memory of saying, “Stop calling me, because I'm going to bed”.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell Brad Miller at any time that they should have that interview done before the start of her interview with the Department of Child Family Services?
Mark Geragos: Absolutely not. One, in my mind, had nothing to do with the other.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell Brad Miller to tape-record that interview with the Department of Family Services?
Mark Geragos: Absolutely not. If I -- no, I absolutely did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell Brad Miller that he should have somebody else tape-record that interview?
Mark Geragos: Absolutely not. I didn't know that he was going to have anybody there.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have Asaf there that day?
Mark Geragos: I did not have Asaf there that day.
Mr. Zonen: Did you know Asaf prior to that day?
Mark Geragos: I think I met Asaf on one prior investigation that I had hired Brad on.
Mr. Zonen: Is that Asaf Vilchic?
Mark Geragos: I think that's his last name.
Mr. Zonen: And did you understand him to be an employee, a part-time employee, of Brad Miller?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Is Brad Miller someone you had worked with for a period longer than five years prior to that day?
Mark Geragos: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you feel that you knew Brad Miller fairly well?
Mark Geragos: I thought I knew him, yes. At that time, I don't know if I would say “fairly well”, but I used him, as I indicated, probably on three or four different cases. I use a number of investigators.
Mr. Zonen: Was there any conversation between you and Brad Miller that night, on the evening of the 19th, about whether or not the DCSF interview would be tape-recorded?
Mark Geragos: No, absolutely not.
Mr. Zonen: When did you first learn that that interview had been tape-recorded?
Mark Geragos: I can't answer that, Your Honor.
The Court: Mark that. Next question, please.
Mr. Zonen: When did you listen to the tape-recording for the first time?
Mark Geragos: I can't answer that.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a conversation with Brad Miller within the next week about the -- about the meeting with the Department of Child Family Services?
Mark Geragos: I probably would have, yes. I don't have -- as I sit here, I don't remember it, but it would not have been unlikely.
Mr. Zonen: Did Brad Miller brief you about the content of the Department of Child & Family Services meeting?
Mark Geragos: I think I was told that there wasn't any problem. And I don't -- and I don't know if I was told that within a week or within a day, but I think I was just told that there was no problem.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ask him, Brad Miller, if he was, in fact, present during the course of the meeting with the representatives from the Department of Child & Family Services?
Mark Geragos: I don't remember doing it, but it certainly would not have been unusual for me to have done it. As I sit here, I don't remember asking him that, but it's logical that I would have.
Mr. Zonen: Did Brad Miller tell you that he was personally present during that interview?
Mark Geragos: I don't remember the conversation, but I don't at any time remember Brad telling me that he was present during that interview.
Mr. Zonen: Did he ever tell you who was present during that interview?
Mark Geragos: That's another question I can't answer.
The Court: All right. Mark it.
Mr. Zonen: Did Brad Miller ever tell you that Asaf was present during the beginning of the interview?
Mark Geragos: That's another question I can't answer.
The Court: Next question. Mark it.
Mr. Zonen: Did Asaf ever tell you how that tape got in the hands of MS-NBC and Dan Abrams?
Mark Geragos: That's another question I can't answer.
The Court: All right. I think we'll take our recess early today. I don't think this is productive to proceed this way. (To the jury) Any objection if you go home seven minutes early?
A Juror: Oh, no.
The Court: See you Monday morning at 8:30. Remember the admonition. Counsel remain a moment.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Geragos, do you still have that exhibit in front of you or did I take it back already?
Mark Geragos: Yes.
The Court: Mr. Geragos, you may step down, but remain within the bar. You have an interest, a stake here. I think you have counsel here.
Mark Geragos: Pat's sitting here, but I'll be one of those pro pers. My biggest concern is I'm engaged in Department C35 in a jury trial that has been ongoing now for eight weeks in Santa Ana court before the Honorable Judge --
The Court: Could you come to the microphone? There's people that just can't hear you back there.
Mr. Zonen: I'll move out of your way.
Mark Geragos: I'm presently engaged in jury trial in Department C35, long-cause court, in Santa Ana. I've been there for eight weeks. We have 18 jurors in the box. I'm in the middle of cross-examination. This is a case that's estimated to last till August. The case is actually seven years old. It's been to the Supreme Court and back, and there is a published decision on it. The -- all the jurors are ordered back for Monday morning at nine o'clock. I am ordered back by Judge Fasel at 8:45. Obviously I do not want to incur the wrath of this Court, but I believe that if I'm ordered back for Monday, I'm going to be under competing Court orders, and somebody's going to find me in contempt.
The Court: Who do you want to do that? (Laughter.)
Mark Geragos: I think I'd rather -- I hate to say this, as much as I love Santa Maria, I'd rather spend my time in the OSC jail, so --
Mr. Sanger: We have a nice jail here.
The Court: We can call that judge. I understand. In fact, that's why I ordered you up today, was when I heard that you were in a lengthy jury trial, my choice was not to disturb the jury trial on Monday, because I know how hard it is for any jury to have to deal with these kind of problems. And I fully anticipated that we'd be able to get all of your testimony in today. You know, the District Attorney had said that he only had a few more minutes with LeGrand, and that didn't happen, so you were kept upstairs for a period I didn't anticipate this morning. But his courtroom is dark on Fridays?
Mark Geragos: He I think -- I believe has a law-and-motion calendar on Fridays, and that's why it's dark for jury trials. The jury was ordered back at -- for nine o'clock. The next day off is the 20th. I've already inquired here. I guess you're not working, I guess this court is dark on the 20th. And then we do have, even though I'm supposed to be out of the country, we're dark on the 26th of May. I suppose I could always delay that trip to later in the day if I could get --
The Court: Well, I'm not going to put it off that long. What I could do is cancel our day off on the 20th. The 20th was going to be a day off because Mr. Sanger had made a commitment to appear --
Mark Geragos: If it's just Mr. Sanger, I've got no problems screwing up his day off.
The Court: So I'm trying to -- what I'm going to require here is some points and authorities from both sides. I'm not quite sure of what -- where we are and what we should be doing. And so it wouldn't hurt if -- I mean, clearly everyone's going to have their points and authorities to me Monday, but then we could take your testimony next Friday and --
Mark Geragos: That's fine. And I'd appreciate it. The case I had on Friday I was hoping that you would say that. I had somebody go out to San Bernardino this morning and continue a prelim that was set for the 20th, so I have -- I can move the other two things that I have, so it's not a problem.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, on Friday, from a selfish standpoint, could we limit the day to Mr. Geragos's testimony?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: So when we're through, then we could go, because I could still make part of it.
The Court: Right. We can set Friday just for Mr. Geragos's testimony.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
The Court: How much more testimony -- how much longer do you think you're -- I know. The problem is if I give you a week, then it will -- to think of questions, then....
Mark Geragos: Exactly.
Mr. Zonen: You're asking me how many more minutes of cross-examination I have?
The Court: Estimate your time.
Mr. Zonen: Oh, gosh. A half hour at least.
The Court: Is that all?
Mr. Zonen: Well, no. (Laughter.)
The Court: Well, we have a serious problem to deal with, and I really don't have a -- I really am not -- all we can do is do some research.
Mr. Zonen: I'll try to accommodate the Court as best I can.
The Court: If I bring the jury in, I'm not going to bring them in just for a half hour of testimony on Friday, so we'll use the whole day. That would not be fair to the jury.
Mr. Sanger: Whatever the Court decides.
The Court: I think that's what we've got to do.
Mr. Sanger: If we quit early -- let me put it this way. If we quit early on Friday, it would be nice, but whatever the Court can do with that in mind.
The Court: All right.
Mark Geragos: May I be excused, with the promise that I will return at 8:30 on Friday the 20th?
The Court: You're ordered to return on Friday --
Mark Geragos: And I promise I'll be here.
The Court: -- by 8:30.
Mark Geragos: Thank you.
The Court: I want points and authorities from Mr. Mesereau, and I want points and authorities from Mr. Sneddon. Are you interested in --
Mark Geragos: Yes, I had hoped that you would invite me to, but I was going to -- I'll try to keep it short, but I'll point to what I think are the applicable code sections that are appropriate and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
The Court: The issue -- here's -- the issue I want addressed is not what the ethical rules are. We know that. What I want to address is what happens in the middle of testimony when the party who's asserted that they have given you a waiver on the record, a waiver of the attorney-client privilege, suddenly reveals in the writing that you don't have a complete waiver. And what are the remedies? What should I do?
Mark Geragos: My belief is that under the --
The Court: Well --
Mark Geragos: I won't give it to you now.
The Court: Don't shoot from the hip. I can't believe that this ever happened to you before, did it?
Mark Geragos: No.
The Court: Okay. Well, let's do some research on it.
Mark Geragos: I just think it's similar to the conflict situation. If it's not done by the client on the record, then that's the problem.
The Court: Well, that's not the -- the client -- the attorney made the waiver. The client is sitting there, you know. There's all sorts of issues here that are different than that. The question is what do we do now? So I would like all of you to weigh in on the issue at hand, which is what do we do now?
Mark Geragos: I'd be happy to. Thank you.
The Court: Now, will you fax your materials to my office? Do you still have that number?
Mark Geragos: I do. I saved that on my Word Perfect.
The Court: I'll authorize fax service on Mr. Mesereau and Mr. Zonen, Mr. Sneddon. And I want to have all of this by eight o'clock Monday morning.
Mark Geragos: That's fine.
The Court: And then would you call your judge and tell him that I have accommodated him and do understand the situation with him?
Mark Geragos: I will. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
The Court: Anything else?
Mr. Sanger: I'm still struggling with this matter that I have on Friday. Assuming we're through with Mr. Geragos by the 11:30 break, would you be willing to call the jury in -- in other words, we would have witnesses -- if he's done in a half an hour, we would have witnesses to take us to the 11:30 break. Would that be all right?
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
The Court: Would you have -- I would like to have the jury commissioner immediately leave a message for all the jurors right now that the day off on the 20th has been cancelled. We're going to use it so that any plans they have they can change, and prevent them from making plans in anticipation. Anything else? Okay.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:30 p.m.
