Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Monday, May 16, 2005 8:30 a.m.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: Good morning, everyone.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor.
The Court: Please remain standing. Raise your right hand, face the clerk.
Message: JEAN LORRAINE SEAMOUNT Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Jean Seamount: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Jean Seamount: My name is Jean Lorraine Seamount. Jean, J-e-a-n; Lorraine, L-o-r-r-a-i-n-e; Seamount, S-e-a-m-o-u-n-t.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: May I proceed, Your Honor?
The Court: You may.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Good morning. Dr. Seamount, what is your professional background?
Jean Seamount: Should I state my degrees?
Mr. Sanger: Sure.
Jean Seamount: I obtained my Bachelor of Science in biochemistry from UCLA. I obtained my doctorate of dental surgery from UC San Francisco. And I obtained my masters of science in dentistry from the University of the Pacific.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And are you an orthodontist?
Jean Seamount: Yes, I am.
Mr. Sanger: How long have you been an orthodontist?
Jean Seamount: About 17 years.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Where is your office located?
Jean Seamount: 511 Fifth Street, Solvang.
Mr. Sanger: In Solvang. All right. Your Honor, there's an exhibit that was previously received in evidence. May I put it up on the board? It's 5030.
The Court: You may.
Mr. Sanger: Give that a second to focus and give you a chance to look at it. Do you see the star there?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Does that appear to be where your office is located in Solvang?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you said Fifth Street. How close is that to the main drag in Solvang?
Jean Seamount: It's almost to the corner.
Mr. Sanger: And I disrespectfully said “the main drag”, but what is that street called?
Jean Seamount: Mission.
Mr. Sanger: Is it also a highway?
Jean Seamount: Yes, Highway 246.
Mr. Sanger: Is that where -- when you're going from 154 to 101, you have to slow down to 25 and enjoy the shops and the scenery there?
Jean Seamount: As you enter Solvang on 246, you do have to slow down.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Excuse me one second. We're all going to trip over something here. Okay. All right. Your Honor, I'd like to approach the witness with a series of exhibits.
The Court: You may.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead. I've seen them.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to show you 5020 through 5029, which is a series of photographs, and just ask you to take a look at those photographs, and then I'll ask you a question after you have a chance to inspect them. All right. Having looked at those photographs, do they appear to be photographs of your dental offices?
Jean Seamount: Yes, they are.
Mr. Sanger: And do they appear to be a fair and accurate depiction of the offices?
Jean Seamount: Yes, they are.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, I would move into evidence -- most of them have come in, but I would move into evidence the ones that did not, which would be 5023, 5028 and 5029.
The Court: Any objection?
Mr. Zonen: No objection.
The Court: They're admitted.
Mr. Sanger: And may I publish them on the overhead, please?
The Court: You may.
Mr. Sanger: 5020 is now being placed on the board.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And what does that represent?
Jean Seamount: That's the sign in front of my building.
Mr. Sanger: All right. 5021, what is that?
Jean Seamount: That is the exterior of my building. The front entrance.
Mr. Sanger: Front entrance. 5022, go ahead and tell us what that is. I'm sorry.
Jean Seamount: That's the handicapped parking in the front area of the exterior of my building, facing Mission.
Mr. Sanger: And you see some cars parked on the street, like that little red car there?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: About how far from Mission Street, 246, is that red car?
Jean Seamount: Not very far. You can see the truck that's going to be crossing the intersection, so, you know, as far as how many feet, you know, I don't know, but it's pretty close.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And is this a populated area of California or are there people that live and work in this general area?
Jean Seamount: Yes, there's a residence right next door to my building. That's a hotel that you can see right over there.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to point here to the right side of 5022. That's a hotel; is that correct?
Jean Seamount: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you mentioned earlier a truck. I now have a pointer, for the record. So you mentioned a truck. It looks like a white pickup truck --
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: -- going from left to right on the -- on the exhibit. Is that truck on Mission or 246?
Jean Seamount: It's on Mission, which is 246.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now I'm going to put up 5023. Do you recognize that?
Jean Seamount: Yes. This is the counter in my waiting room, my reception area.
Mr. Sanger: So when you go in the front door, you have a reception area. Looks like there might be a chair there or a couch?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then there's -- looks like a barrier of some sort with a swinging door; is that right?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And when patients are brought back into the examining room, which way do they go?
Jean Seamount: Not through there. There's a large entry area, or a large hall that goes into the treatment rooms.
Mr. Sanger: Is that to the right or the left here?
Jean Seamount: It's --
Mr. Sanger: Or behind us, I suppose.
Jean Seamount: It's in front of this.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So as far as this is concerned, is this area the place where your staff would work?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And is there a telephone back there?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to put up 5024. And this appears to be a different view of the same area; is that correct?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: So if I understand you - I apologize for getting that backwards - this would be the front door coming in; is that correct?
Jean Seamount: No. That's a window.
Mr. Sanger: That's a window. Okay. What is this? I give up.
Jean Seamount: The front French doors.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So that's the way you would come in to the office?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And then where do you go to go to the examining rooms?
Jean Seamount: To my left, right here.
Mr. Sanger: So in the forefront or in the back?
Jean Seamount: In the back.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So near where you enter, you also go -- you also go back to the examining rooms; is that correct?
Jean Seamount: Yes, that's correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. All right. I'm going to show you 5025, and ask you if that's one of your examining rooms.
Jean Seamount: This is my main treatment room where I see three patients at a time.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, I take it the chairs are for the patients, right?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I see here what appear to be some doors; is that correct?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And actually, there's a clock right above that; is that correct?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Does that clock work?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did it work in February and March of 2003?
Jean Seamount: Probably.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, where do these doors go to?
Jean Seamount: To my private office and consultation room.
Mr. Sanger: All right. To the left there appear to be some doors; is that correct?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And where do those doors go to?
Jean Seamount: To the exterior deck in the back.
Mr. Sanger: Now, is there another set of doors to the left of this that are excluded from the picture?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: So I'm going to put up 5026 and ask you, is this the set of doors that we saw in the other picture, that being the doors on the right here?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then here's another set of doors in this picture by the rocking chair on the left, right?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And that goes out to the back patio; is that correct?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Are those doors -- if there was an emergency of some sort, can people go through those doors to get outside?
Jean Seamount: Absolutely. You can never lock them from the inside.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I'm going to put up 5027 and ask you what this represents.
Jean Seamount: That is one of our private treatment rooms.
Mr. Sanger: And is there a name for this room?
Jean Seamount: Pardon?
Mr. Sanger: Is there a name for the room?
Jean Seamount: It's called the western room.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And that's because there's some western pictures on the wall, that sort of thing?
Jean Seamount: A western theme.
Mr. Sanger: And what was the name of the other room, by the way, if there was one?
Jean Seamount: The windmill room.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So this is a separate room, and then I see some doors here. Where do those doors go?
Jean Seamount: To the outer deck.
Mr. Sanger: Are those doors unlocked so if there's an emergency somebody could go right out?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now I'm going to put up 5028. And what does 5028 depict?
Jean Seamount: This is the exterior, the back side of my office, showing the four sets of French doors.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, I see one set here. Which room does that go to?
Jean Seamount: The western room.
Mr. Sanger: And then it looks like there are two sets there in the middle, by the chimney. What do they go to?
Jean Seamount: Okay. The door right next to the western room goes to the sunrise room.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. That's the room we didn't see?
Jean Seamount: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Jean Seamount: And then there's two sets of French doors on either side of the fireplace that go into the windmill room.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So what did you say that was called, the --
Jean Seamount: The sunrise room.
Mr. Sanger: It almost makes you want to go have your teeth worked on.
Jean Seamount: That's the point.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I said “almost”, though, by the way. Let me clarify that. All right. Now, if you come out the back here, if somebody wanted to, you know, get away, and go to other people, to civilization to get help or whatever, could they leave by way of this back door?
Jean Seamount: Yes. There really aren't any barriers.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I'm going to show you 5029, and ask you if you recognize 50 -- I think you told us you do, but what is 5029?
Jean Seamount: This is the side of my building next to the western room.
Mr. Sanger: So on the left here where we only see the corner of the building, if we followed that a few feet to the left, you would have the first of those French doors, correct?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And what -- the photographer's point of view seems to be from the patio itself, is that correct, or the deck?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then there's a ramp here; is that correct?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, there's a walkway, it appears, also in the picture; is that correct?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Does this ramp lead to that walkway?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And right out in front, there seems to be a van parked there. Is that Fifth Street?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then we saw in the original picture that a number of yards down to the right from this picture would be Mission, also known as 246, correct?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Do you know -- Your Honor, we can have the lights, if that's all right. I'll come back to it in a minute, but not right now. Do you know Mr. Jackson?
Jean Seamount: I've never talked to him. I know of him.
Mr. Sanger: But you never met him at any time?
Jean Seamount: I've never been introduced.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Have you had occasion to be contacted by anybody from Mr. Jackson's ranch?
Jean Seamount: I think I should have my attorney address the Judge.
Mr. Sanborn: Your Honor, Max Sanborn. Could I approach?
The Court: Do you have an objection, Counsel?
Mr. Sanborn: Actually, Your Honor, we're looking for a point of clarification. I understand that Dr. Seamount's testimony is going to be in connection with an examination and treatment of the alleged victim's older brother, and to the extent his mom was involved with it, the mother as well. I understand that Evidence Code Section 998 says that there is no physician-patient privilege in a criminal proceeding. And we're looking for clarification with the Court, because I reviewed cases and I can't find any cases where a witness is testifying about a witness. Only the defendant is the holder. So could I have a clarification on that?
The Court: I'll order her to testify.
Mr. Sanborn: Thank you.
The Court: Go ahead, Counsel.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I forgot what I asked you. Did somebody contact you from the ranch? Have you ever been contacted by anybody from the ranch?
Jean Seamount: Once I was contacted by, I think it was Joe Marcus, regarding two high-profile patients that needed their braces removed.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And did you eventually treat those patients?
Jean Seamount: I removed their braces for them.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And do you recall the names of those patients?
Jean Seamount: Gavin and Star.
Mr. Sanger: Last name Arvizo?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And was their mother present?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And what was her name?
Jean Seamount: I don't remember.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. But Mrs. Arvizo?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, do you recall when the appointment was scheduled for?
Jean Seamount: It was on a Monday evening, and since they said it was two high-profile patients, I decided to place them at the end of the day.
Mr. Sanger: When do you usually close your office?
Jean Seamount: That night, I think it was six o'clock.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Do you usually close -- do you have a usual closing time of some sort?
Jean Seamount: For the Solvang office, it's either 5 p.m., 6 p.m. or 7 p.m., depending.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And on that particular night, when did you meet with these particular patients?
Jean Seamount: I think it was around six o'clock.
Mr. Sanger: Now, you indicated something about taking off the braces. What was the nature of the request? First of all, starting with Mr. Marcus, did he tell you what they needed to have done?
Jean Seamount: Yes. I'm pretty sure that they wanted their braces removed. I think so.
Mr. Sanger: And when you eventually met with the mother and the two boys, did you conclude that that's what they were requesting?
Jean Seamount: The mother requested removal of the braces.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, first of all, before we get to what happened there, did you see anybody arrive with the Arvizos?
Jean Seamount: I didn't.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Where did you see the Arvizo children? Did you see them in different rooms or the same room?
Jean Seamount: One patient was in the western room. The other was in the sunrise room.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So these rooms are rooms that have doors, you can exit to the back patio; is that right?
Jean Seamount: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Now, can you explain to us the best you recall the attitude and demeanor of the mother that you observed that night?
Jean Seamount: She was angry at another orthodontist who had placed the braces, and she wanted the braces removed so she could send the braces back in the mail to the orthodontist. She claimed that once the orthodontist found out who she was, he wanted more money, and so she was very angry and she just wanted them removed. And she wanted to personally send them back by mail to him.
Mr. Sanger: Now, was that consistent with your medical advice?
Jean Seamount: No. I spent quite some time explaining to her about the need for treatment, and that I could take over or any orthodontist could take over the braces that were placed, and I recommended not removing the braces and continuing on with treatment.
Mr. Sanger: How did that advice -- how was that received by Mrs. Arvizo?
Jean Seamount: I think that she discussed it with her sons. I can't completely remember. And then we also discussed other treatment options, such as braces behind the teeth.
Mr. Sanger: Now, did she specifically ask about options that would be more expensive than the ones that she had?
Jean Seamount: I don't remember.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. You say “braces behind the teeth”. Is that sort of an invisible braces procedure?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And did she ask you for a quote to install those kinds of braces?
Jean Seamount: She seemed interested. I don't remember if she asked for a quote or not.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, why was it that you recommended that she not remove the braces that were there?
Jean Seamount: Because they need braces and it's their best interest to continue on with treatment.
Mr. Sanger: Did you inspect the braces that were in place?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did they appear to be installed properly?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did they appear to be doing the job they were designed to do?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And taking them off at that time, did that appear to you to be counterproductive?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, did you have an opportunity to review your medical records and determine the date that this visit occurred?
Jean Seamount: No. It appeared that they had been recently placed, and that there hadn't been much tooth movement. She refused to fill out the paperwork that we normally have patients fill out.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I guess what I was asking, and it's my fault, did you review your paperwork to determine what day this family came in to see you?
Jean Seamount: Oh, yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: And what day was that?
Jean Seamount: That was February 24th.
Mr. Sanger: 2003?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: How long were the three Arvizos in your office that night?
Jean Seamount: Probably a couple of hours. I'm not sure.
Mr. Sanger: And during that period of time did you ever see anybody with them?
Jean Seamount: No.
Mr. Sanger: So if Mr. Marcus was there at all, he never -- you never saw him, he never came back in the back?
Jean Seamount: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Were there any other bodyguards or anybody else like that?
Jean Seamount: I didn't see anybody.
Mr. Sanger: Was there a positive PR film crew that was following this group around taking pictures of you doing this orthodontic work?
Jean Seamount: No.
Mr. Sanger: When they left, did -- were they -- how did they leave? In other words --
Jean Seamount: They just left.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Said goodbye to you and they walked out on their own; is that right?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Nobody came and took them out?
Jean Seamount: I didn't see anybody.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, besides the telephone that's located in the reception area, are there other telephones located in your suite of offices?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: If a patient or client wants to use the telephone, makes a request, do you allow them to do so?
Jean Seamount: Absolutely.
Mr. Sanger: Does that happen on a fairly regular basis?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did anybody in this family during that two-hour period ask to use the telephone?
Jean Seamount: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did they give any indication that they were being held against their will?
Jean Seamount: Not at all.
Mr. Sanger: Did anybody in this group make any request for help or assistance?
Jean Seamount: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did anyone attempt to go out the back door and leave that way?
Jean Seamount: No.
Mr. Sanger: Now, during the time that you had Star in one room and Gavin in the other room, what was Mrs. Arvizo doing?
Jean Seamount: I don't know.
Mr. Sanger: Was she up and walking around or was she seated in one particular place?
Jean Seamount: I don't know where she was.
Mr. Sanger: You talked to her from time to time during the --
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: -- during the visit, right? And was she in there with one or the other of the boys from time to time when you were working on them?
Jean Seamount: I don't really remember. She was free to go where she wanted to when she wanted to. I wasn't really focusing on her.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, did you observe the behavior of the two boys?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And can you describe the behavior of Gavin?
Jean Seamount: He's the older boy, right?
Mr. Sanger: Yes.
Jean Seamount: He was undisciplined, and he started to go through my drawers with my disposables.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Does that pose a health hazard?
Jean Seamount: Yes, I'd have to throw everything away.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Did you try to stop him from doing that?
Jean Seamount: Yes. And I told Tiffany, “Please don't leave the boys alone”.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did he seem to be intimidated or in fear at any time?
Jean Seamount: Not at all.
Mr. Sanger: Did Mrs. Arvizo appear to be intimidated or in fear?
Jean Seamount: Not at all.
Mr. Sanger: What about Star, the younger of the two? Do you recall what he was doing?
Jean Seamount: His behavior, I think, was better.
Mr. Sanger: Did he appear to be intimidated at all?
Jean Seamount: No.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, with regard to the two boys, are you clear on which one is which right now as you sit there?
Jean Seamount: The boy that I thought was older was in the western room and exhibited the worst behavior.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Between the two, was one heavier than the other one; do you recall?
Jean Seamount: I -- the boy in the western room appeared to be bigger, heavier, to me.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And was he the one that had the -- the worst behavior or --
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I have no further questions.
The Court: Mr. Zonen?
Mr. Zonen: Thank you, Your Honor.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Doctor, good morning.
Jean Seamount: Good morning.
Mr. Zonen: Tell me what made those two patients VIP patients.
Jean Seamount: At the time I didn't know.
Mr. Zonen: What could -- do you have a collection of VIP patients that you schedule for certain times during the week?
Jean Seamount: Why is that important?
The Court: Excuse me, ma'am. Answer the question.
Jean Seamount: Answer the question?
Mr. Sanger: Let me do this, Your Honor. Let me object --
The Court: Just a moment, Counsel.
Mr. Sanger: I'm sorry.
The Court: Ask your question.
Mr. Zonen: Is there an answer? I don't know if there was an answer.
The Court: No, you can answer the question.
Jean Seamount: Okay. If there are scheduling problems with a patient, I will make special arrangements, and it doesn't matter how important they are as far as the world's concerned. If somebody has a special need I have come in on off hours for them.
Mr. Zonen: My question dealt with why these two children were designated VIP. What exactly was it that made these two children VIP patients?
Jean Seamount: I did not determine that.
Mr. Zonen: Was that your understanding, that somebody in your office determined them to be VIP patients?
Jean Seamount: No, we were told that they were high-profile patients from Joe Marcus.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Now, “high-profile patient” means what to you?
Jean Seamount: Someone recognizable.
Mr. Zonen: Did Joe -- is Joe Marcus somebody you knew prior to that day?
Jean Seamount: No.
Mr. Zonen: But your understanding is Joe Marcus contacted your office and said both of these kids are high-profile?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: That they would be recognizable?
Jean Seamount: He didn't say that. He said, “high-profile”.
Mr. Zonen: And that he did not want them recognized; is that the case?
Jean Seamount: He did not say that.
Mr. Zonen: Did he specifically ask that this be at a time when the clinic was otherwise closed to other patients?
Jean Seamount: No, he did not.
Mr. Zonen: Was that a decision that was made by you?
Jean Seamount: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did you feel that that was necessary in this particular case?
Jean Seamount: After I met them, no, I never would have recognized them.
Mr. Zonen: And were you aware that Joe Marcus was there the entire time that the patients were there?
Jean Seamount: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you learn that afterward?
Jean Seamount: I think I just recently heard something to that effect. I had no idea he was there.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. I have no further questions.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I have no further questions. Thank you.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down.
Jean Seamount: Thank you, Your Honor.
The Court: Call your next witness.
Mr. Sanger: We call Tiffany Haynes.
The Court: Come forward, please. When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing. Face the clerk and raise your right hand.
Message: TIFFANY HAYNES Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Tiffany Haynes: Yes.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Tiffany Haynes: My name is Tiffany Haynes. T-i-f-f-a-n-y; H-a-y-n-e-s.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Miss Haynes, how are you employed?
Tiffany Haynes: I'm an orthodontic assistant.
Mr. Sanger: For whom are you working?
Tiffany Haynes: Dr. Jean Seamount.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Your Honor, Mr. Sanborn, the lawyer for Dr. Seamount, asked that we clarify that the same ruling would apply to the assistant.
The Court: The same ruling does apply. I'll order her to testify.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
The Court: I'll make it clear that the Court has waived the considerations of privacy of the patients in this situation and has ruled that the testimony -- the need for the testimony outweighs those considerations, and that's why I've ordered the doctor and any of the staff to testify.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Sanborn: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Miss Haynes, how long have you worked for Dr. Seamount?
Tiffany Haynes: Four and a half years.
Mr. Sanger: Did you recently take a leave?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes. I'm on maternity leave.
Mr. Sanger: You're on maternity leave?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Were you working for her in the office on February 27th, 2003?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sanger: And have you had a chance to go back and look at some of the records to refresh your recollection as to that date?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes, I have.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, on that particular day -- I think the bailiff is going to tell you --
Bailiff Cortez: She's fine.
Mr. Sanger: Everybody has this problem. You have to get real close to the microphone. On that particular day, did you receive a telephone call from anybody requesting an appointment for someone?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes, we did.
Mr. Sanger: And who made the call, to your knowledge?
Tiffany Haynes: A staff member from Neverland Ranch.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, Mr. Jackson is seated right there. Have you ever met Mr. Jackson before?
Tiffany Haynes: No, I haven't.
Mr. Sanger: All right. What happened as a result of the telephone call coming from a ranch employee, or staff person at Neverland?
Tiffany Haynes: We made them an appointment and they came in.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Do you -- as the office manager, do you know who was billed for the services for this family?
Tiffany Haynes: I'm positive it was Neverland Ranch's bill.
Mr. Sanger: And did they eventually pay the bill?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, during -- do you recall the name of the people who came in?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sanger: And what was their names?
Tiffany Haynes: I remember -- well, one was Star.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Tiffany Haynes: And I can't remember the other one. I'd have to look at his paperwork.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Were there two boys?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes, they were two boys.
Mr. Sanger: And were they brothers?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes, I believe they were.
Mr. Sanger: So Star and his brother.
Tiffany Haynes: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And did anybody accompany them?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes. Their mother accompanied them.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did you see any employees of the ranch or any drivers or anybody that might have come with them?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And who did you see?
Tiffany Haynes: It was a man from the ranch who made the appointment brought them.
Mr. Sanger: Did you see him inside the examining rooms at any time?
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: Where was he during the time of the examinations and treatment?
Tiffany Haynes: I believe he was waiting in the lobby.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Did you ever see him anywhere other than the lobby?
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: Now, do you recall roughly what time the family got there that night?
Tiffany Haynes: 6:45.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. That's roughly? All right. And at that time, when was the Solvang office open until?
Tiffany Haynes: We were seeing patients until 7:00.
Mr. Sanger: Was it unusual to see patients who remained after the official closing time?
Tiffany Haynes: We do for certain patients that request to be seen after patient hours.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So it sounds like these people got there 15 minutes before closing and were there beyond?
Tiffany Haynes: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: How long were they there?
Tiffany Haynes: About two hours.
Mr. Sanger: Now, did you assist Dr. Seamount during the course of her seeing these patients?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: Was there anybody else there from your office?
Tiffany Haynes: No, there wasn't.
Mr. Sanger: Just you and Dr. Seamount; is that correct?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: During the time that you were assisting Dr. Seamount, did you have an opportunity to observe the behavior of the two boys?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: And can you describe their behavior?
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, I'll object as irrelevant.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Tiffany Haynes: Well, the younger boy stayed in one room with his mother. And he seemed to be fairly quiet, you know. Nobody likes to go to the dentist. The older boy I ended up assisting was very, could I say kind of rude.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. When you say “kind of rude” - I know it's not nice to talk about people when they're not there, but this is a court, we have to ask you - what did -- why do you say that?
Tiffany Haynes: Just the way that he acted with us. He just thought that pretty much he was better than us.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: Judge, I'm going to object to the answer as a conclusion and speculative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Move to strike.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Sanger: Can you explain the actual behavior? Give us an idea of what occurred that caused you to feel that the older boy was rude.
Tiffany Haynes: Well, we tried to convince them to stay in treatment, you know, for the better of their teeth, and he just was very abrupt and said, “No, this is what I want done. This is what's going to be done”. And so we ended up doing whatever he wanted.
Mr. Sanger: Now, was there any problem with either of these boys getting into things in the office?
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: Was there any time when either one of them, to your knowledge, was going through drawers or trying to get into things?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, tell me about what you were -- what you were explaining to the patients about their braces. Did you actually talk to them in addition to Dr. Seamount?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And what did you talk to them about?
Tiffany Haynes: Well, you know, trying to keep their braces on, because he wasn't done with his treatment at all. And so if he were to take them off, then most likely, when he became an adult, he might have to have braces again, or eventually, you know, get broken teeth and crowns and dentures and whatnot. Trying to save money in the long run.
Mr. Sanger: Now, did he tell you where he was from?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes, he did.
Mr. Sanger: Where did he say?
Tiffany Haynes: He was from L.A.
Mr. Sanger: And how did he tell you that?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as irrelevant and hearsay.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Tiffany Haynes: Well, I was trying to make small talk and asked him where he was from. And I asked if he was from around the valley and he said, “No, I'm from L.A”.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, did you ask either one of the boys any other questions, any other personal questions?
Tiffany Haynes: No. Not after the answer that I got.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And did you try to keep it on a professional level?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did either of the boys appear to be afraid of anything? Was there anything that --
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: Other than having a big drill or something?
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: But they didn't appear to be afraid of anybody around, they didn't indicate --
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did you talk to the mother?
Tiffany Haynes: I didn't personally talk to the mother.
Mr. Sanger: Did you see her around?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you see her interact with Dr. Seamount?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And what was her attitude?
Tiffany Haynes: Well, she was just there to see what was going to be done to her children pretty much. She didn't have any reaction to anything really.
Mr. Sanger: Did she make any requests in your presence with regard to their treatment?
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Did you ever put together a proposal to replace the braces that were removed?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you do that at the mother's request?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall roughly how expensive that procedure would have been?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as beyond the scope of this witness's expertise and relevance.
The Court: Foundation; sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
The Court: Relevance; sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. During the time that you were talking with these boys and the mother was present, was there a discussion by Dr. Seamount regarding whether or not they should remove the braces or not?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Overruled.
Tiffany Haynes: Yes, they talked about removal of the braces.
Mr. Sanger: And the proposal that you wrote up, did you write that proposal in the course of your duties as office manager?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Is that something that you did on a regular basis?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And how would you go about determining what kind of a proposal to write up for a patient?
Tiffany Haynes: We just had a standard pricing that we give to everyone.
Mr. Sanger: So who makes the determination as to what treatment would be required?
Tiffany Haynes: Dr. Seamount does.
Mr. Sanger: And she'd do that in consultation with the patients?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And after that occurs, does she then turn to you and ask you to do the proposal?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And the proposal that you did in this case, did that involve working with the existing braces or putting on new braces?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as relevance.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, at the time that these people were there, did you have telephones in the office in Solvang?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes, we did.
Mr. Sanger: And did any of the Arvizos ask to use the telephone?
Tiffany Haynes: No, they didn't.
Mr. Sanger: Did anybody cry out for help?
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did anybody indicate in any way that they were being held against their will?
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did you see any evidence that anybody was holding them against their will?
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did they behave in any fashion that suggested that they were not free to do as they pleased?
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: There are some back doors -- we saw some pictures -- I won't put them up again, but we saw some pictures of some back doors that go out to the patio. Were those unlocked in the event that people could leave in the event of an emergency?
Tiffany Haynes: They're locked, but you can unlock them very easily. They don't require a key or anything.
Mr. Sanger: So you turn the knob and you can go out?
Tiffany Haynes: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: Did anybody attempt to escape?
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: Was there any indication that any of these people wanted to escape?
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: Was there -- during the time you saw these people, other than Joe Marcus, I think the gentleman you said that was waiting in the reception area, right?
Tiffany Haynes: I believe so. I was in the back office with the patients, so I wasn't aware of whether or not he possibly left to go outside or what not. My main concern is patients.
Mr. Sanger: All right. You saw him there at one point, one or two points in the course of things; is that right?
Tiffany Haynes: I saw him when they came in.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Tiffany Haynes: And then I was in the back office the whole entire rest of the time.
Mr. Sanger: When you saw him when they came in, you saw Joe Marcus in the presence of the Arvizo family, right?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you see anything that suggested that there was any tension between Joe Marcus and the Arvizo family?
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did you see anything that suggested that he was holding them against their will?
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, other than Joe Marcus, did you see anybody else -- other than Dr. Seamount and the Arvizos, did you see anybody else in the office during the period of time that we're talking about?
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: Joe Marcus -- did Joe Marcus have a camera?
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: Was there a positive PR film crew following everybody around?
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: Was anybody filming the removal of the --
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: -- orthodontic work?
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Sanger: You're sure about that?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you. I have no further questions.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Miss Haynes, good morning.
Tiffany Haynes: Good morning.
Mr. Zonen: Who was it who called for the appointment that day?
Tiffany Haynes: It was Joe.
Mr. Zonen: And did you know Joe Marcus prior to that day?
Tiffany Haynes: No.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Was he the one who told you that these were high-profile patients?
Tiffany Haynes: No, they didn't say that they were high-profile patients. He just said that he was calling from Neverland Ranch, and needed to make an appointment for two guests that were at the ranch.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Who was it who made the decision to make the appointment for the end of the day?
Tiffany Haynes: They were. They wanted to be seen without so many patients there.
Mr. Zonen: All right. So who was it who said that they wanted to be seen without patients there?
Tiffany Haynes: Well, Joe was the one who called to make the appointment.
Mr. Zonen: Joe -- was that appointment made with you or somebody else at the clinic?
Tiffany Haynes: It was made with the front desk lady. It wasn't made directly with me.
Mr. Zonen: But your understanding was that Joe had indicated that he wanted the appointment when no other patients were there?
Tiffany Haynes: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object and move to strike as no foundation and hearsay.
The Court: Sustained. Stricken.
Mr. Zonen: No further questions.
Mr. Sanger: No further questions. Thank you.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down. Call your next witness.
Mr. Mesereau: Defense will call Miss Katie Bernerd.
The Court: When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing. Face the clerk over here and raise your right hand.
Message: CAROLE McCOY Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Carole McCoy: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Carole McCoy: Carole McCoy. C-a-r-o-l-e; M-c-C-o-y.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: I can take her.
Mr. Mesereau: We'll switch, Your Honor.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Best laid plans. Sorry about that.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Miss McCoy, how are you?
Carole McCoy: Fine, thank you.
Mr. Sanger: What do you do for a living at the present time?
Carole McCoy: I am a licensed aesthetician and I also manage a restaurant.
Mr. Sanger: And what restaurant do you manage?
Carole McCoy: Cafe Angelica.
Mr. Sanger: Where is that?
Carole McCoy: In Solvang.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, you said you were licensed. And can you tell us what that license is, please?
Carole McCoy: Licensed aesthetician is I do skin care, body treatments.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, you're doing pretty good, but I think the best thing is to lean into the other microphone.
Carole McCoy: Sorry.
Mr. Sanger: And you got to go right up to it. Everybody's having that problem.
Carole McCoy: All right.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So you do skin care?
Carole McCoy: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And have you been doing that for a long time?
Carole McCoy: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: When did you get your license?
Carole McCoy: That's a good question. I've been doing it for probably about eight years.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I think maybe if you pull -- the bailiff was approaching you to -- maybe pull it up just a little bit. There you go. And then just talk right into it. Where were you working February the 11th, 2003?
Carole McCoy: At my day spa.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And what was the name of the spa?
Carole McCoy: Bare Skin Aromatherapy Day Spa.
Mr. Sanger: Where was that located?
Carole McCoy: In Los Olivos.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall receiving a telephone call from somebody at Neverland Ranch?
Carole McCoy: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, do you know Mr. Jackson, who's seated here?
Carole McCoy: No.
Mr. Sanger: Never met him?
Carole McCoy: No.
Mr. Sanger: Have you dealt with people at Neverland Ranch?
Carole McCoy: No. Well, yes. I have a client that worked out there.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So you had a client that worked there?
Carole McCoy: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sanger: Have you had occasion to treat any of their guests?
Carole McCoy: No.
Mr. Sanger: On February the 11th, did you receive a call from the ranch?
Carole McCoy: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: And what was that -- what did that call pertain to?
Carole McCoy: They had a guest that wanted to come for waxing.
Mr. Sanger: Did you schedule an appointment?
Carole McCoy: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: What time was that appointment?
Carole McCoy: It was my last appointment of the day.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Roughly what time of day was that?
Carole McCoy: Probably around five o'clock.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Did you have occasion to go back through your records to verify all of this?
Carole McCoy: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And do you recall the client who finally showed up for this procedure?
Carole McCoy: I'm sorry?
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall the person who showed up?
Carole McCoy: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And who was it?
Carole McCoy: Her name was Janet.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did you get her last name?
Carole McCoy: It was written in the book so I didn't really refer to her, her last name.
Mr. Sanger: And what was she there for? What services did you render to her?
Carole McCoy: She was there for waxing.
Mr. Sanger: What kind of a waxing?
Carole McCoy: Do you want me to give you details about what she had done?
Mr. Sanger: Yeah. In fact, let me do this. We've marked a one-page document as Exhibit 5087. Who has this witness?
Mr. Sneddon: Go ahead.
Mr. Sanger: May I approach the witness, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Miss McCoy, I'm going to show you 5087 for identification and ask you if you recognize this document.
Carole McCoy: Yes, I do. That's one of my statements.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And what does that pertain to?
Carole McCoy: The services she had done. It's listed all separately what she had done.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And those are the services for Janet, who came over from the ranch; is that correct?
Carole McCoy: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I would move 5087 into evidence, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: No objection.
The Court: It's admitted.
Mr. Sanger: I'd like to put it up, if I may.
The Court: You may.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. 5087 is on the -- is up on the overhead. And I think you told us that is the receipt for the work that you did, the services you performed for Janet from the ranch; is that correct?
Carole McCoy: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: First of all, what date is that receipt dated?
Carole McCoy: February 7th.
Mr. Sanger: And that's consistent with the date that you had the appointment with this particular individual, correct?
Carole McCoy: Yes, that's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Now, can you tell us, either by looking at the receipt or from memory, what precise services you performed?
Carole McCoy: She had a brow wax, a lip wax, face, leg, and bikini.
Mr. Sanger: Is that pretty much a full body wax?
Carole McCoy: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sanger: You have to say “yes” or “no” for --
Carole McCoy: Oh, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you. All right. Now, do you recall talking with Janet during that period of time?
Carole McCoy: Yes, I did talk to her a little bit.
Mr. Sanger: What was your policy or is your policy when you're treating people in the spa as far as chatting with them?
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Immaterial, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Did you have a long, chatty conversation with her?
Carole McCoy: No, I didn't.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Was there any reason for that?
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Immaterial.
Carole McCoy: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
The Court: The objection is overruled. Next question.
Mr. Sanger: I'm sorry, Your Honor, I didn't mean to speak so quickly.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall anything that Janet told you?
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Hearsay.
Mr. Sanger: Not offered for the truth of the matter.
The Court: All right. Overruled. You may answer the question.
Carole McCoy: I try to make my clients feel comfortable and I do ask them some personal questions.
Mr. Sanger: What did she say; do you recall?
Carole McCoy: I --
Mr. Sneddon: Same objection, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled. Go ahead.
Carole McCoy: I asked her, you know, if -- where she was from. I asked her if she had any kids.
Mr. Sanger: Where did she tell you she was from?
Carole McCoy: I believe that she told me she was from South America. And that she did have children.
Mr. Sanger: Did she at any time while she was there -- well, let me withdraw that. Let's establish how much time she was there. She got there about five o'clock; is that right?
Carole McCoy: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: How long was she there?
Carole McCoy: She was there for about an hour, maybe a little more.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And at your spa -- do you still own that spa?
Carole McCoy: No. I sold it.
Mr. Sanger: You sold it. So can you tell us what it looked like inside roughly? What was the physical layout for the spa?
Carole McCoy: Well, you would walk in, and there was a reception desk. And then to the left, there was two treatment rooms. And to the right, there was some stations for manicure patients.
Mr. Sanger: Were there telephones in this office?
Carole McCoy: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And if a client -- do you call them clients or --
Carole McCoy: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: If a client wanted to use the telephone, did you allow people to use the phone?
Carole McCoy: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sanger: You have to say “yes” or “no” for the reporter.
Carole McCoy: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you.
Carole McCoy: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Did Janet at any time ask to use the telephone?
Carole McCoy: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did she come by herself or was there somebody with her?
Carole McCoy: No, someone came, dropped her off.
Mr. Sanger: Did that person wait around?
Carole McCoy: No. They left her, and then came back and picked her up.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Was there anybody with Janet during the course of time she was there?
Carole McCoy: No.
Mr. Sanger: And I know you answered this and I forgot the answer. She was there from 5:00 till about when?
Carole McCoy: She was there for about an hour.
Mr. Sanger: So from about 5:00 to about 6:00?
Carole McCoy: 6:00, uh-huh.
Mr. Sanger: During that time that she was there, was she free to leave?
Carole McCoy: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did it appear to you that she was restrained in her liberty in any way whatsoever?
Carole McCoy: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did she ask for help?
Carole McCoy: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did she say anything whatsoever that suggested that she was not enjoying her visit at Neverland?
Carole McCoy: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did she say anything or do anything whatsoever that suggested that she was being restrained in her liberty?
Carole McCoy: No.
Mr. Sanger: Now, you said somebody dropped her off. Was it a man or a woman; do you recall?
Carole McCoy: It was a woman.
Mr. Sanger: Do you know the woman by name?
Carole McCoy: No.
Mr. Sanger: And that woman, you said, dropped her off and then came back later, correct?
Carole McCoy: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: So how long a period of time while Janet was there without anybody else there except you?
Carole McCoy: She was there at least an hour, a little bit more.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And during that time, did you see anybody with a camera taking pictures of any of you?
Carole McCoy: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did you see a positive PR film crew come into your spa and film the hair removal from Janet's legs?
Carole McCoy: No.
Mr. Sanger: Is that something that would have stuck in your mind?
Carole McCoy: No, I have a private room.
Mr. Sanger: Did you see a positive PR film crew of any sort anywhere on that day in any way related to Janet?
Carole McCoy: No.
Mr. Sanger: No further questions.
Mr. Sneddon: No questions.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down. Call your next witness.
Mr. Sanger: Why don't I step out just to make sure. Oh, here we go.
Mr. Mesereau: We're going to try again, Your Honor.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: Defense will call Katie Bernerd.
The Court: When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing. Face the clerk over here and raise your right hand.
Message: KATHRYN BERNERD Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Kathryn Bernerd: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
The Court: You were right the first time. Take the other microphone.
Kathryn Bernerd: This one? My name is Katie, or actually Kathryn Bernerd. And it's spelled K-a-t-h-r-y-n, B-e-r-n-e-r-d.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning, Miss Bernerd.
Kathryn Bernerd: Good morning.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Bernerd, which county do you live in?
Kathryn Bernerd: I live in Nipomo now. Previously than, I did before, so it would be San Luis Obispo.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you ever live in Santa Maria?
Kathryn Bernerd: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when was that?
Kathryn Bernerd: It was a year ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how long had you lived in Santa Maria?
Kathryn Bernerd: Many years.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Are you familiar with a place called Neverland Valley Ranch?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes, I am.
Mr. Mesereau: How are you familiar with Neverland Valley Ranch?
Kathryn Bernerd: I worked there.
Mr. Mesereau: How long did you work there?
Kathryn Bernerd: I worked there for approximately three, three and a half years.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know when you worked there, what years?
Kathryn Bernerd: It was from -- I want to say '01 to '04, I believe.
Mr. Mesereau: And what were your responsibilities at Neverland?
Kathryn Bernerd: I was the administration -- I worked in administration, so I was the assistant along with -- I did the HR and did the events, hosted the events, different -- miscellaneous. If you work at Neverland, you did pretty much everything. Everybody was able to do different jobs.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, where was your office at Neverland?
Kathryn Bernerd: It was in the administration building.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Could you describe what the building looks like?
Kathryn Bernerd: It was a smaller building next to the fire station.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where at Neverland is that building?
Kathryn Bernerd: It's up by where -- the mechanic's shop, and if -- okay. If you knew where Neverland was, when you pulled through the gates and before you went around to the main house area and where the train depot -- before you even get to that area, and you would go -- if you would go up the hill, there is also a building up that way, that is where the administration building would be.
Mr. Mesereau: So it's up on a hill next to the fire station, correct?
Kathryn Bernerd: Right.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have an office there when you worked at Neverland?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You said you did HR work. Do you mean human resources?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Please explain what kind of work you did in the human resources area.
Kathryn Bernerd: Meaning, you know, work comp claims. Anything that dealt with all the employees, along with anything that would just come in and out of the office for Neverland. Invoicing. Pretty much anything that would deal with office work.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many people worked in the administration building when you were working there?
Kathryn Bernerd: Me, and the office manager.
Mr. Mesereau: And who was that?
Kathryn Bernerd: Joe.
Mr. Mesereau: Joe Marcus?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Anyone else work there with you?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you said you worked on events at Neverland, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you do in that regard?
Kathryn Bernerd: I would put them together. Arrange -- a lot of times I would be the contact person for the main people to call. I would then try to set the dates up with another person, see if it's available to set the event up, and then arrange for it to happen, start everything going, you know, get the supplies, what we needed for the day. And then when the day would come, get the schedule for the day, you know, how we would get it going. And then also host it, take the groups around.
Mr. Mesereau: And who would tell you to plan an event, generally?
Kathryn Bernerd: Well, me and Joe both would talk about it together.
Mr. Mesereau: So -- but how would the idea of an event originate, if you know?
Kathryn Bernerd: It would originate just by -- well, normally events would be -- every year we would do events for schools. Schools would call us. The normal -- like, local schools. Or there were -- Evvy would call us when she would have events from the L.A. areas that would be coming, would just call us, and that's how we would call, you know, and just try to get the dates available.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you said local schools would call and they would want to schedule something at Neverland?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Would this happen often?
Kathryn Bernerd: Every year.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what kind of events are we talking about?
Kathryn Bernerd: They would -- it just depends. If they were doing -- every year, the school themselves, if they were wanting to for that class -- say that class that was graduating or something, they wanted to do one day for them, for the graduating class that did well and they wanted to bring them out. Say another school for good grades. It just would depend upon that school.
Mr. Mesereau: So the school would want to bring students to Neverland for an event?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would help plan the event?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you're talking about graduation-type ceremonies?
Kathryn Bernerd: Not ceremonies.
Mr. Mesereau: Parties?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes. A day of fun for the students.
Mr. Mesereau: And was there a typical time of year when you would schedule these events or would they happen anytime during the year?
Kathryn Bernerd: We would always schedule them at least when the days weren't rainy. They would always be sunny.
Mr. Mesereau: Would they typically be at the end of the school year or did things go on during the school year as well?
Kathryn Bernerd: During the school year.
Mr. Mesereau: Any other type of school events that you would get involved in yourself?
Kathryn Bernerd: No, just the events.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you said you would help plan them, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And you also said you hosted them?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: What would you do to plan them?
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object as immaterial, irrelevant.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: When you hosted these events, what were your responsibilities?
Mr. Sneddon: Same objection, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: You said you planned events with the groups from Los Angeles, right?
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Same. Irrelevant and immaterial.
Mr. Mesereau: We need her responsibilities, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Mesereau: You said you helped plan events from Los Angeles, correct?
Kathryn Bernerd: (Nods head up and down.)
Mr. Mesereau: And what events are you referring to?
Kathryn Bernerd: Well, in regards to events from L.A., it would be Evvy contacting us, and what would happen is she would give us a list of who would be coming, so she would start that process. And pretty much from then on, we would just put the day together as in getting the materials, the food, the supplies we needed for the day, and then making sure everybody that we needed to work for the day to be there.
Mr. Mesereau: And what events are you referring to? What kind of things did you plan with people from Los Angeles?
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Immaterial and irrelevant.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer. You may answer.
Kathryn Bernerd: It just would depend on -- let me see. Let me think of one. Say one that comes to mind, you know, because they have labels to them, “A Time For Kids” was -- you know, is one. That is what one event was called.
Mr. Mesereau: So that was a group that came?
Kathryn Bernerd: That was a group that came.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would coordinate their visit?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And would you arrange for food and things of that sort?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And was this sort of a regular part of your work at Neverland?
Kathryn Bernerd: One part, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you said you had an office in the administration building, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you do other types of work at Neverland besides what you just described?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes, I would help out also in the house once in a while.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's the main residence?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: What would you do in the main residence as part of your work?
Kathryn Bernerd: Whenever they were -- the cleaning ladies were a little shorthanded I would help them with housekeeping.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what percentage of your work do you think was involved in housekeeping, where you would just help out?
Kathryn Bernerd: Very small percentage.
Mr. Mesereau: And what were your hours typically when you worked at Neverland?
Kathryn Bernerd: Always 40 hours, but I also had overtime also.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you worked in the main residence, who did you work with?
Kathryn Bernerd: A lot of the times I would work with Maria, who is one of the head housekeeping -- housekeeping cleaners.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that Maria Gomez?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Who else would you work with?
Kathryn Bernerd: Let's see. Luz. And I can't recall everybody's name right now.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you mentioned you talked to Evvy, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that someone named Evvy?
Kathryn Bernerd: Evvy, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And she would help you plan events; is that right?
Kathryn Bernerd: That's mainly what I would talk to Evvy about, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that Evvy was Michael Jackson's personal assistant? Right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: So she would call you from time to time and get you going on various planning, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, if you helped out in the main residence, who would ask you to do that?
Kathryn Bernerd: It would be Joe. If he would know they were shorthanded, he would -- and I had my work done in the office, he would see if I needed -- if I could go down and help.
Mr. Mesereau: And he would simply ask you, you know, “We're shorthanded today. Would you come down and help out?”
Kathryn Bernerd: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would just do that?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yeah. Or sometimes the ladies would tell me, you know, if I had time, and then I would see if it was okay.
Mr. Mesereau: And if you -- if you helped out in the main residence, what are the kinds of things that you would do?
Kathryn Bernerd: Cleaning.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Clean rooms?
Kathryn Bernerd: Clean rooms. Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And which rooms; do you remember?
Kathryn Bernerd: I've cleaned guest rooms, the guest cottages. I've cleaned train depots. The main house. The theater.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And are there any other activities that you were involved in as part of your work at Neverland that you haven't described?
Kathryn Bernerd: Mainly those.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever asked to transport people from time to time?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Please explain what you mean by that.
Kathryn Bernerd: Also, again, whenever some people just were shorthanded and, you know, people were busy doing other things, they would also ask me if I could run around or do other errands for other -- whatever reasons might be. And, yes, when I was asked to give rides to certain guests, take them off property from time to time.
Mr. Mesereau: And who would typically ask you to do that?
Kathryn Bernerd: It would either be Joe, the ranch manager, or sometimes it would be the person who was in charge of the house, whoever at that time would be in charge of the house.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: Take our morning break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Bernerd, have you ever met somebody named Janet Arvizo?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes, I have.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you first meet her?
Kathryn Bernerd: First time I met her was just passing by in the main house area.
Mr. Mesereau: And you say “passing by”. Now, what do you mean?
Kathryn Bernerd: I was going to the main house just to pick up something, and she was in the garage area, and it was just a “hello” kind of thing.
Mr. Mesereau: This is the garage area of the main house?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And is that attached to the main house?
Kathryn Bernerd: It's attached -- yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you see her doing in the garage area of the main house?
Kathryn Bernerd: She was just standing outside.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did she appear to be doing anything in particular?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Was she talking to anyone, to your knowledge?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Just standing there?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: In the garage area, what do you typically see?
Kathryn Bernerd: You would just see the garage doors and the entrance then to the opening to the main area where you can go to the pool area or the arcade room or the main door to the main house.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you say hello to her?
Kathryn Bernerd: Back door, I mean. I'm sorry, what was that?
Mr. Mesereau: Did you say hello to her at that time?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was the first time you had ever seen her?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she say hello to you?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But you saw her standing there not doing anything in particular?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what time do you think it was?
Kathryn Bernerd: It was mid-afternoon. I couldn't give you an approximate time. I don't actually recall. It was just afternoon.
Mr. Mesereau: And you went into the main house after you saw Janet Arvizo?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you just doing some work in the main house that day?
Kathryn Bernerd: I believe I was just picking up something real quick.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see her again that day?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall ever talking to Janet Arvizo on any telephone?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And could you explain what you mean?
Kathryn Bernerd: She used to call up several different times to -- while I was in the -- in my office requesting different things.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, we're talking about sometime in February 2003, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did she start to call you after you met her in the garage area?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you introduced yourself by name to her?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell her what your position was at Neverland?
Kathryn Bernerd: I didn't tell her what my position was. After we did introduce ourselves, she did ask what I did there, and then that's how she found out. She asked me and then I told her what I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Sorry. Did you finish?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. I'm sorry I interrupted.
Kathryn Bernerd: That's okay.
Mr. Mesereau: After you met her in the garage area as you were on your way to the main house, she started to call you; is that correct?
Mr. Sneddon: Object; asked and answered.
Kathryn Bernerd: What was that?
The Court: Just a moment. He's objecting.
Kathryn Bernerd: Oh.
Mr. Sneddon: It's me.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer. I'll have the question read back so you know.
The Court Reporter: After you met her in the garage area as you were on your way to the main house, she started to call you; is that correct?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would she call you at your office in the administration building?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the only phone you had while you worked at Neverland?
Kathryn Bernerd: No. There was many phones, but for a direct number, because they were direct-connect lines, she would call me directly.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know how she got your direct line number?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes, there's main phone lists around Neverland. Every phone has a phone list as to which numbers connect you to which phone.
Mr. Mesereau: And would the guesthouses have that phone list?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So it was not difficult to find out how to get ahold of you, correct?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And is that phone list revised from time to time?
Kathryn Bernerd: All the time.
Mr. Mesereau: And who typically revises the phone list?
Kathryn Bernerd: I do.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you revised the phone list, what do you do?
Kathryn Bernerd: I would just go into the computer and revise it and make copies again, and send it to the -- whoever's in charge of the main house and they would make sure it got around.
Mr. Mesereau: And the phone list would have numbers for virtually everyone who worked at Neverland, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: It would have -- the phone list actually had, for every phone, like, the numbers. Like it would be No. 21 for this phone would be whoever this phone, you know, it would connect you to.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Kathryn Bernerd: So every phone to Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: So it was no secret how to call people who worked at Neverland if you were on the ranch, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how many phone lists do you think there were around Neverland showing you where to call someone if you wanted to?
Kathryn Bernerd: There was at least approximately probably 20, if not more.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you are talking about phones in the theater and phones at the train station and phones all over, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would redo the phone list, and you would arrange to have someone insert it in all the phones at Neverland, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall approximately the first time Janet Arvizo called you after you met her?
Kathryn Bernerd: If you're asking for a date, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when? Would it be sometime in February of 2003, do you think?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes, February of 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what did you talk about?
Kathryn Bernerd: She had asked if I can get her --
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object to the statements as hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever do anything for Janet in response to any request of hers?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes, I took her off property.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you take her?
Kathryn Bernerd: To a day spa.
Mr. Mesereau: And where was that day spa?
Kathryn Bernerd: It was located in Solvang.
Mr. Mesereau: And why did you take Janet to a day spa?
Kathryn Bernerd: She wanted to get some different things waxed and wanted to also get her hair done up and different things done to her hair.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she make that request to you?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she call you on the phone to make that request?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: And when she asked you to take her to a spa to do the things you described, what did you do in response?
Kathryn Bernerd: I first told Joe about it, just to let him know that she's making this request, and to make sure if it was okay to set an appointment for -- like that, and got the okay, and went ahead and set the appointment up.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you choose any particular date for that appointment?
Kathryn Bernerd: She wanted it done right away.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Kathryn Bernerd: Within the hour.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And Joe gave you the approval, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You called the spa, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you know which spa to call?
Kathryn Bernerd: I just tried to find one real close by. It was one I had never -- I didn't even know we had one that close by, so I had looked at the phone book.
Mr. Mesereau: Had anyone at Neverland ever made a request like that to you before?
Kathryn Bernerd: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that you were supposed to make the appointment and take Janet to the appointment?
Kathryn Bernerd: I didn't know I was supposed to take her to the appointment.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point in time, did you actually learn you were going to take her to the appointment?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How did you learn that?
Kathryn Bernerd: After I set up the appointment.
Mr. Mesereau: What happened?
Kathryn Bernerd: I just got asked if I could take her.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And who asked you that?
Kathryn Bernerd: Actually, at the time the main house -- who was in charge of the main house, Jesus, asked me if I could take her.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you take her?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did you transport her yourself?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Was anyone with you and Janet when you took her?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And what car did you take her in?
Kathryn Bernerd: I took her in a van.
Mr. Mesereau: And whose van was that?
Kathryn Bernerd: It was Mr. Jackson's, one of his vehicles.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And so it was just you and Janet in the van, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: This is the appointment you had arranged, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately what time of day do you think you took Janet to her appointment?
Kathryn Bernerd: This was closer towards the evening. I want to say it was approximately around 4:00-ish. I could -- yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you took Janet to her appointment at the salon, did you have any understanding as to who was going to pay for it?
Kathryn Bernerd: We were.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you know that?
Kathryn Bernerd: Because we always do with -- with any request from any guests. We just pay -- we do. We just pay for whatever the request might be.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever discuss with Janet who was going to pay for the waxing treatment at the salon?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was it your understanding that she just assumed you'd pay for it?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Object, Your Honor. Calls for a conclusion.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Move to strike.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell Janet, “Mr. Jackson's going to pay for your appointment”?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: So there was no discussion about payment at all?
Kathryn Bernerd: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when you took her to the appointment at the salon, tell us what happened.
Kathryn Bernerd: As we were driving?
Mr. Mesereau: Sure.
Kathryn Bernerd: As we were driving -- again, I really didn't know Janet too well except for the few phone conversations and the request that she had. We were driving along, and she started to tell me about --
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object to anything she says as hearsay.
Mr. Mesereau: Not for the truth, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: What relevance does it have, then?
Mr. Mesereau: It impeaches.
The Court: Just a moment.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, that's just a basis --
The Court: Let's not start.
Mr. Sneddon: Relevance. Hearsay and relevance.
The Court: The objection is overruled. You may answer.
Kathryn Bernerd: She started to talk about her ex-husband, and about how she was trying to get away from him. Going into detail about those type of -- how badly she had it; how well, you know, Michael had been treating her; how he was so much of a father figure to her kids; how he's helped them out so -- you know, how he's helped them out. She just pretty much was praising Michael and telling me also just how -- how bad she had it off with her ex. And I was just driving the whole -- you know, the distance, because it's not too far from the salon to Neverland. And the whole time, though, I was thinking, “I don't know this lady and I can't believe she's telling me this much into her background of her story”, because I wouldn't normally tell anybody my kind of story. And --
Mr. Sneddon: Object to the narrative, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: How long was the drive to the salon?
Kathryn Bernerd: It would be about a ten-minute drive.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you drop her off at the salon?
Kathryn Bernerd: I took her inside and talked to the front lady that I had talked to on the phone, and we talked about payment. And if I recall, I think I did pay then. And then -- and then they told me, “Okay, it will be about this long”. And I decided -- I still had more work to do, so I said, “I'll come back for her”, and I left. And then after she had told me how long it would be, and I think it was maybe about 45 minutes she said to come back, and I came back.
Mr. Mesereau: So after you dropped Janet Arvizo at the salon, did you go back to Neverland?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you resumed your duties at Neverland when you got back?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And at some point you decided to return to the salon to pick Janet Arvizo up, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, while Janet Arvizo was at the salon, did you speak to her at all on the phone?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you speak to anyone at the salon while you were back at Neverland?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So at some point you drive back to the salon to pick her up, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you get to the salon, and what do you do next?
Kathryn Bernerd: Go inside to get her, and then she wants to get her hair done. And I just talked with the lady at the -- you know, the front desk lady. And we tried to arrange for her to get her hair done. And the person who was going to do her hair, she didn't have anything available until the next morning, so then we walked through the back, because I guess the hair place is just right through the back of their area. The salon's right in front. And we spoke to her, and she was going to make a special trip in for the next morning, and we set it up for the next morning, and we were going to bring Janet back the next morning to get her hair done.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, while you were driving Janet to the salon and while she was telling you about her personal life, did she ever complain that she was being held against her will at Neverland?
Kathryn Bernerd: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: During that drive to the salon, did Janet Arvizo ever say she and her family were being falsely imprisoned at Neverland?
Kathryn Bernerd: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: During that drive to the salon, did she ever complain that Michael Jackson or anyone associated with him was doing anything bad to she or her family?
Kathryn Bernerd: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever part of any effort to hold Janet Arvizo against her will?
Kathryn Bernerd: No, I was not.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever part of any conspiracy to falsely imprison the Arvizo family?
Kathryn Bernerd: No, I was not.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you ever part of any conspiracy to extort or threaten anyone in the Arvizo family?
Kathryn Bernerd: No, I was not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did anyone at Neverland ever ask you to hold the Arvizos against their will?
Kathryn Bernerd: No. No one ever did.
Mr. Mesereau: Anyone at Neverland ever ask you to extort the Arvizos or threaten them in any way?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever get the feeling, separate and apart from what she told you when you drove her to the salon, that she was being held captive?
Kathryn Bernerd: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when you drove Janet Arvizo to the salon, do you recall there being any public relations group following you with cameras?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: When you brought Janet Arvizo into the salon, do you recall seeing any public relations crew following you?
Kathryn Bernerd: None whatsoever.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see anybody with cameras following you when you took Janet Arvizo to the salon?
Kathryn Bernerd: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: When you went to pick up Janet Arvizo, after she'd completed her appointment, did you go into the salon?
Kathryn Bernerd: After I had picked her up?
Mr. Mesereau: No, excuse me. When you went -- I didn't rephrase it. Excuse me, I didn't phrase it very well. Let me withdraw the question. When you returned to the salon to pick up Ms. Arvizo, did you park the van?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you get out of it?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you go into the salon?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you do when you got in the salon?
Kathryn Bernerd: That's when we went to the back area to try and schedule the appointment for her hair.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was Janet with you when you went into the back area?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was she with you when you tried to schedule another appointment?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever complain that she was being held against her will at the salon?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did she ever complain that her children were being held against their will at any time?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And because she wanted a hair appointment, you scheduled one, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. After you scheduled the hair appointment, what did you do next?
Kathryn Bernerd: We just drove back to Neverland.
Mr. Mesereau: And you recall paying for the salon appointment, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: On the way back to Neverland, did you and Janet chat?
Kathryn Bernerd: I'm sure it was small chitchat.
Mr. Mesereau: Was anyone else in the van with you?
Kathryn Bernerd: No, it was still -- we were alone.
Mr. Mesereau: On the way back, did she ever complain about anything Mr. Jackson had ever done?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: On the way back, did she ever complain about anything that was going on at Neverland?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you said that Janet called you from time to time at Neverland, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Uh-huh. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And on -- obviously on one of the occasions she asked for the opportunity to go to the salon, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall her calling and asking you other things?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What else did she ask you to do?
Kathryn Bernerd: She has asked for us to take her off property to go shopping for clothes for her and her children. She's also asked me to set up an appointment with a dentist so she could get some braces removed from one of her sons.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you set up that dental appointment?
Kathryn Bernerd: Actually, I believe Joe Marcus did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when she asked you to set up a dental appointment, was there any discussion about who would pay for the appointment?
Kathryn Bernerd: No, there was not.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your assumption that Mr. Jackson would pay for it?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you have anything to do with that dental appointment other than what you've just described?
Kathryn Bernerd: No. That was it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you said she called up and asked you to take she and her family out to buy clothes?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you remember what she said?
Kathryn Bernerd: Just --
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Hearsay.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes, she said that she had lost her suitcases and didn't have any clothes at all, and needed to get some clothes. And at the time, Chris Carter was in the office when I was taking the call, and was standing there, and he said that he had just taken them to get clothes and some shoes, and he didn't understand why she was calling asking for those things.
Mr. Mesereau: So your understanding --
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object to the second hearsay statement.
The Court: It's stricken. The jury is admonished to disregard the statement by Chris Carter.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that this was not the first time she had called and made a request to go shopping for clothes?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you arrange for Janet Arvizo to go shopping for clothes?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Why didn't you do that?
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Immaterial.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: How many phone calls do you think you had with Janet Arvizo while she was at Neverland?
Kathryn Bernerd: Maybe four or five.
Mr. Mesereau: In any of those conversations, did she ever complain that she was being held against her will?
Kathryn Bernerd: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever get the impression in any of those conversations that Janet was scared of anything?
Kathryn Bernerd: Never once.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever get the impression that she was trying to hide anything when she spoke to you on the phone?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Were those phone calls all initiated by Janet or would you call her as well?
Kathryn Bernerd: No, they were initiated by Janet.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you know where she was calling from when she made those calls?
Kathryn Bernerd: No. I don't have that capability of knowing where she's at.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did Janet explain to you why she wanted a dental appointment?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did she say?
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object. Excuse me. Are you finished with the question?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Hearsay.
Mr. Mesereau: State of mind, Your Honor. And not for the truth.
The Court: The objection is overruled. You may answer.
Kathryn Bernerd: She stated that she was being hassled by the dentist who put the braces on, and couldn't afford to pay for them. And she wanted to send the braces back in an envelope to the dentist.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you relay that information to Mr. Marcus?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever see Mr. Jackson interact with Janet at Neverland?
Kathryn Bernerd: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see -- excuse me. Did you ever meet any of Miss Arvizo's children at Neverland?
Kathryn Bernerd: Just passing by.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Kathryn Bernerd: Like how I did with her outside in the garage areas.
Mr. Mesereau: And where was this --
Kathryn Bernerd: Also --
Mr. Mesereau: -- at Neverland?
Kathryn Bernerd: Also -- when I met them, it was also in the garage areas.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Kathryn Bernerd: When they were just standing around.
Mr. Mesereau: Were the children with Janet or without Janet?
Kathryn Bernerd: One time they were with Janet. And then one time I believe they were just getting ready to get on some quads or something.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Kathryn Bernerd: Or go-carts.
Mr. Mesereau: At the time you saw them with Janet, approximately what time of day was that?
Kathryn Bernerd: Again, in the afternoon. It could have been one, two, three o'clock.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately where at Neverland did you see Janet and her children together?
Kathryn Bernerd: In the front -- in the main house area, in the pool -- in the garage/pool area.
Mr. Mesereau: So roughly were you had seen Janet the first time, correct?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did she seem to be doing with her children?
Kathryn Bernerd: She was just standing around with them. She wasn't doing anything.
Mr. Mesereau: What do you recall the children doing on that day?
Kathryn Bernerd: Nothing. On the day that she was with them?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Kathryn Bernerd: They were just standing around with her also at that time, at that moment.
Mr. Mesereau: But there was no question in your mind they seemed to be together, right near -- Janet seemed to be together with her children?
Kathryn Bernerd: Oh, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Near the main house, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. So for how long did you observe them all on that particular day?
Kathryn Bernerd: It wasn't long at all. I was just passing by, so it was a few minutes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, were you going to the main house or away from the main residence?
Kathryn Bernerd: To the main residence.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did Janet introduce you to her children?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You just said hello?
Kathryn Bernerd: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have you ever spoken to any of her children, other than what you described on that day?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Did you ever see Janet inside the main house when you were helping out?
Kathryn Bernerd: I believe I saw her one time in the kitchen area, but that would be it.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you recall seeing her doing?
Kathryn Bernerd: Sitting at the kitchen bar.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And the kitchen bar --
Kathryn Bernerd: Stool.
Mr. Mesereau: -- is like a counter where you can see into the kitchen, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's a counter which has wooden seats attached to it, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you typically have plates with homemade buns on the counter every day, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And people will sometimes order food and it will be prepared right in front of them in that kitchen area, correct?
Kathryn Bernerd: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And are you saying you remember seeing Janet sitting there?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you see her eating anything?
Kathryn Bernerd: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Was she talking to anyone, if you recall?
Kathryn Bernerd: I don't believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Were her children with her on that occasion?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Any other time you remember seeing the Arvizo children doing anything at Neverland?
Kathryn Bernerd: No. A lot of the times I was in the office working, so they were always running around playing.
Mr. Mesereau: And you'd see them playing?
Kathryn Bernerd: No. We would just -- I would know -- we would know a lot of times if they had requests to take the quads out, because then we'd have to call security to pull them out or the mechanics to pull them out. So a lot of times I would just know when those kind of things -- you know, if the kids were out running around on those.
Mr. Mesereau: So part of your job would be to arrange for the children to drive the quads?
Kathryn Bernerd: Or just to let the security or somebody know to pull them out or put them away.
Mr. Mesereau: And typically when this request was made, who would make the request?
Kathryn Bernerd: The kids would ask somebody around the house area, and then they would call one of us in the office. Just depends on whoever was around to ask, and then they would call us.
Mr. Mesereau: And if you got a request to arrange for the children to drive quads, what would you do?
Kathryn Bernerd: Well, we always need the okay and the authorization from Joe, so he would be the one to go to next.
Mr. Mesereau: And was any such request ever turned down; do you know?
Kathryn Bernerd: I don't believe so, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how many times do you think you were involved in a request to provide quads for the Arvizo children?
Kathryn Bernerd: Maybe just a couple times.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever see them actually driving around?
Kathryn Bernerd: It's possible.
Mr. Mesereau: Not sure?
Kathryn Bernerd: I'm not sure. A lot of times people wear helmets, you know, or we make sure everybody does wear helmets. So I couldn't tell you underneath the helmets who was who.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you seen other children drive quads?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you been involved in arranging for other children to drive quads?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What do you have to do to make that arrangement?
Kathryn Bernerd: Just get the authorization through Joe, and then just make sure that they're available and working and ready.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you then contact the children who wanted to drive quads and let them know that they were available?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: What would happen next as far as their being able to drive a quad?
Kathryn Bernerd: If I was involved with that actually, I would just let security know, and security would come and take over from there after I found out -- or had the authorization. They would get them available and then find the kids or let them know where they are. And I don't know from then on what they did.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you said your work was mostly at the administration building up on a hill, right?
Kathryn Bernerd: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And the main house, when you helped out --
Kathryn Bernerd: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: -- right? And did you ever work at the theater?
Kathryn Bernerd: On events, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What events are you talking about?
Kathryn Bernerd: When -- when I wasn't hosting events, and, say, if we had weekend events and they needed help, I would -- like, working behind the theater, the snack bar. I would work inside the theater, like handing out candy or popcorn, those kind of things.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you hand out candy and popcorn to children?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. They were children who were there for specific events?
Kathryn Bernerd: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall seeing the Arvizo kids in the theater?
Kathryn Bernerd: No, I don't believe so. I don't think I've ever -- not for an event.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you think you've seen the Arvizo children anywhere else at Neverland during the time that you worked?
Kathryn Bernerd: No.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: No questions.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down. Call your next witness.
Mr. Mesereau: Defense will call Ms. Maria Gomez.
The Court: When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing. Face the clerk here. Raise your right hand.
Message: MARIA GOMEZ Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Maria Gomez: Yes.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Maria Gomez: My name is Maria Gomez.
The Clerk: Will you please spell that?
The Interpreter: The interpreter will spell. M-a-r-i-a; G-o-m-e-z.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning, Miss Gomez. Miss Gomez, do you know the fellow seated at counsel table to my right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who is he?
Maria Gomez: He is my boss. I work for him.
Mr. Mesereau: What is his name?
Maria Gomez: Michael Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long have you worked for Michael Jackson?
Maria Gomez: I have worked for him ten and a half years.
Mr. Mesereau: And have you worked for him at Neverland?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what kind of work have you done at Neverland?
Maria Gomez: (In English) The housekeeping.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And as a housekeeper, what are your responsibilities?
Maria Gomez: Cleaning. Cleaning the house. To serve.
Mr. Mesereau: And is all of your work in the main house?
Maria Gomez: No. In other areas as well.
Mr. Mesereau: And what other areas do you work at?
Maria Gomez: The units. The theater. The train depot.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you say “the units”, do you mean the guest units?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And as part of your responsibilities, do you and others clean the guest units?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, is there a particular time of day that you usually clean the guest units?
Maria Gomez: Yes. We always clean them when the guests go out to lunch.
Mr. Mesereau: So do you typically clean the guest units around midday?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when the guests go to lunch, where do they typically go?
Maria Gomez: To the kitchen.
Mr. Mesereau: And is that the kitchen in the main house?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And so you will watch to see when the guests go to the main house and then go to clean the guest units?
Maria Gomez: Usually, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long does it typically take to clean a guest unit while the guests are having lunch in the main house?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; relevancy.
The Court: Overruled.
Maria Gomez: About an hour.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, if the guests don't leave for lunch and stay in the unit, what do you do about cleaning the unit?
Maria Gomez: We ask. We call them on the phone and ask if they would like service.
Mr. Mesereau: So you try and schedule an appropriate time with the guest?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, in the main house, what areas do you typically clean?
Maria Gomez: The whole house. Well, not his room.
Mr. Mesereau: What areas, do you think?
Maria Gomez: The upper floor of the house, the library. All the areas except for his room.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you be responsible for cleaning the wine cellar area?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And let me direct your attention to the year of 2003, okay? And I'd like to talk about January, February, March of 2003. Okay. Were your duties the same as you've just described?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you cleaning the wine cellar then?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you cleaning the guest units then?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall ever meeting someone named Janet Arvizo?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when do you recall first meeting Janet Arvizo?
Maria Gomez: I cannot recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall seeing them in 2003?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall seeing them in the time period of, say, January, February, March 2003, roughly?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever see Janet Arvizo's children at Neverland?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what were their names, if you remember?
Maria Gomez: Davellin, Star and Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall the Arvizo family staying at the ranch?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you see them often?
Maria Gomez: Yes, all the time.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see Janet Arvizo all the time?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And where would you often see Janet Arvizo?
Maria Gomez: Sometimes I saw her in her room, because I cleaned when she was inside the room. And other times, most of the time in the kitchen.
Mr. Mesereau: What would you -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. What did you see Janet Arvizo doing in the kitchen?
Maria Gomez: Well, not exactly in the kitchen, but at the counter.
Mr. Mesereau: And what would you see her doing at the counter?
Maria Gomez: When she would go for meals, she would spend a lot of time there, because there was a machine where they can play games there.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see Janet with her children in that area of the house?
Maria Gomez: Yes, many times.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you see them all playing games?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there a particular time of day where you would see them playing games in the kitchen area?
Maria Gomez: Well, at lunchtime or mealtimes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see Janet in the main house at other times?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how often do you remember seeing Janet in the main house at times other than lunch?
Maria Gomez: Well, usually they would go and spend time there at the sitting room.
Mr. Mesereau: And what is the sitting room?
Maria Gomez: It's an area next to the kitchen.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you see in the sitting room?
Maria Gomez: How is that?
Mr. Mesereau: Well, is there a television in the sitting room?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Is it a big television?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And would you see Janet and the kids watching television in the sitting room?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you have couches near the T.V., right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you see them there at all times of day?
Maria Gomez: Many times they would spend a lot of hours there.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, what hours did you work during the first three months of 2003?
Maria Gomez: Well, we're always rotating. Usually my schedule, I would go at 9:00, 8:00. Then sometimes I would leave at 4:30. But when I had the afternoon shift, actually I would stay until we locked up the house.
Mr. Mesereau: And what time would you lock up the house when you did the afternoon shift?
Maria Gomez: 9:00 or 10:00 in the evening.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you sometimes see Janet Arvizo in the house in the evening?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you see Janet with her children in the house in the evening?
Maria Gomez: Yes, after supper.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see Janet and her children have dinner in the main house often?
Maria Gomez: Yes, but at that time she spent a lot of time in her room.
Mr. Mesereau: And would you visit her in her room?
Maria Gomez: Only the times that I would go and clean when she could request it.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Janet watching television in the main house in the evening?
Maria Gomez: I cannot recall exactly, but it was normal to see them spend a lot of time in that area.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's in the main house, right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, in Janet's guest quarters, did you have a television also?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you see her children in the guest quarters ever?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times do you think you saw Janet's children in the guest quarters at Neverland?
Maria Gomez: I would not be able to say how many times. But when we would go and clean, they would be there for a short while and then they would go out and then come back in.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, during the first three months of 2003, how many guest units do you remember the Arvizos having at Neverland?
Maria Gomez: Three.
Mr. Mesereau: And whose rooms -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. Who was staying in those three units?
Maria Gomez: The lady in No. 4. Gavin in No. 3. And Star and Davellin in No. 2.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you often clean those three units?
Maria Gomez: Sometimes I would do one or sometimes another. But not very often, not every day would I clean all three.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall seeing the children in their units from time to time?
Maria Gomez: As I said, they came and went.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall cleaning the children's units?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you do that often?
Maria Gomez: Sometimes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did those units need cleaning?
Maria Gomez: Oh, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you mean by that?
Maria Gomez: Those children were tremendous. They usually would bring a lot of things from the theater, lots of candy. And they would make a big mess. Something -- it was almost as if they would want to waste whatever.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it hard cleaning their rooms?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Why was that?
Maria Gomez: They would leave them -- well, I don't think that guests staying for one night would make such a filthy mess in one day.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they make a mess often?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there any question -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. They clearly were using those rooms, weren't they?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Calls for a conclusion; ambiguous.
The Court: Overruled.
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you said you would clean Janet's room, right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was her room a little easier to clean than the kids?
Maria Gomez: It was easier, yes, of course.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. She didn't mess her room up the way those children did, right?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the children mess up their beds?
Maria Gomez: Oh, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you mean by that?
Maria Gomez: Well, when one -- well, I don't know if they -- if they were very wild when they slept, but the sheets and the blankets were -- they were all -- they had been taken out of the bed.
Mr. Mesereau: Did that happen often?
Maria Gomez: Many times. They would always make a mess. And the beds --
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see Janet at any other locations on the property from time to time?
Maria Gomez: Well, when she would spend a lot of time there in her room, I happened to mention to her why she didn't go out and take a walk. Because to me, it seemed that she spent a lot of time there. And that would be when sometimes -- well, very few times.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object as nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Michael Jackson with Janet Arvizo at Neverland?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you recall seeing Michael Jackson and Janet Arvizo doing?
Maria Gomez: Talking or eating dinner.
Mr. Mesereau: Would Michael Jackson eat dinner with Janet Arvizo?
Maria Gomez: Not all the time, but sometimes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you see Michael Jackson and Janet having dinner without the children?
Maria Gomez: But you are asking about those -- that time, January?
Mr. Mesereau: January, February, March 2003, approximately.
Maria Gomez: Oh, no. She spent a lot of time in her room.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you see her with Michael Jackson at all?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object. Vague as to time.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: During the approximate period of January, February, March of 2003, do you recall seeing Michael Jackson with Janet Arvizo at Neverland?
Maria Gomez: I would not be able to say. I can't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall seeing Janet Arvizo with her children at Neverland outside of the main house?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object. Vague as to time.
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: During the approximate period of January, February and March of 2003, do you recall seeing Janet Arvizo with her children at Neverland outside of the house?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did you see them?
Maria Gomez: Around the units area.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you see them doing?
Maria Gomez: Just talking.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see the children playing at Neverland during that time period?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you see them doing?
Maria Gomez: They used the motorcycles, the skateboards. There are bikes, bikes that they use around the house.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you see Janet Arvizo with her children when they were playing?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And in your work, do you go all over the property?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see the children at other locations on the property?
Maria Gomez: At the theater.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you see them doing at the theater?
Maria Gomez: Well, when there are films, they would watch the films, or they would spend time at the counter eating ice cream.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, is that the counter in the theater?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And is there a place to sit there?
Maria Gomez: There is no sitting area.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you sort of lean against the counter and order what you want?
Maria Gomez: Yes, or they could serve themselves.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And that's where you get ice cream and popcorn, right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you can get candy there as well?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you would see them when you were cleaning the theater?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see the children, Star, Gavin, Davellin, interacting with other guests at the ranch?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you mean by that?
Maria Gomez: Well, at that time I was trying to recall who was there at that particular time. No.
Mr. Mesereau: You don't recall seeing the Arvizo children playing with other children at Neverland?
Maria Gomez: At that time, I cannot recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall seeing the children in the area where the rides are, the amusement rides?
Maria Gomez: We don't go -- usually don't go out to that area.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you said that in the main house, you used to clean the wine cellar area, right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you used to do there as part of your work?
Maria Gomez: That is not in the area that is usually cleaned. It's cleaned once in a while. It is not a place that is frequented. It's a place that is always locked and we really don't say we usually cleaned it. Only when it needed it.
Mr. Mesereau: And who would decide when the wine cellar area needed cleaning?
Maria Gomez: At that time I would, or Jesus.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you say clean the wine cellar area, what are you talking about? Please describe the -- that part of Neverland.
Maria Gomez: That place is used to store meals or food that the cooks use, for example, if they buy big amounts. There are some refrigerators that they use. And there's a sink right next to that, and if they leave things out, sometimes they make a mess right there. And -- or maybe they have a drink there and then someone just leaves the glass behind. But really, it's not that much that's something that we would have to clean all the time.
Mr. Mesereau: And where would the food be stored in the wine cellar area?
Maria Gomez: Where the refrigerators are.
Mr. Mesereau: Would the food be actually in the area where you find wine?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's an area that's refrigerated, right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: So would the cooks go into the wine cellar to get food from time to time?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know how often they would do that?
Maria Gomez: Not very often.
Mr. Mesereau: And what kind of food was stored in the wine cellar during the period of, say, January, February, March of 2003?
Maria Gomez: They used refrigerators when they buy meats, juices or extra milk. Those refrigerators are used as storage.
Mr. Mesereau: So the wine cellar itself is refrigerated, right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And it gets very cold in there, right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when you would go in there to clean, how would you get in?
Maria Gomez: There is a key that we had to go in there.
Mr. Mesereau: And where would you get the key?
Maria Gomez: The key -- Jesus had the key, or Joe.
Mr. Mesereau: And who would decide when you needed to go clean the wine cellar area?
Maria Gomez: Well, if someone that had gone in there became aware. But we did not go.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you clean that area if it needed cleaning?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And typically would you decide when to go there or would someone tell you it needed cleaning?
Maria Gomez: Usually -- well, since the key was held by only two people, we had to request the key.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall the key hanging anywhere in that area?
Maria Gomez: They had it on a key chain.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But when you needed the key, did you get the key yourself or did someone give it to you?
Maria Gomez: Someone would give it to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you need permission to go into that area or would you just go there when you thought it was necessary?
Maria Gomez: I would have to ask.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when food was being prepared for a large number of guests at Neverland, would there be a lot of activity in and out of the wine cellar area?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And would you see cooks, for example, going in and out of the wine cellar area?
Maria Gomez: Yes. Usually they were the ones who would have the key. If there was an event, they would have the key with them during the day in order to go in and out.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it only the cooks you would see going in and out, or would you see other people?
Maria Gomez: Just the cooks.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that anytime the cooks needed to go into the wine cellar, they could get in?
Maria Gomez: Yes, but they would also have to request the key.
Mr. Mesereau: In the kitchen area, you also have refrigerated areas, right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And they're not locked, right?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And there is alcohol -- excuse me. Alcoholic beverages are contained in those areas as well, right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And anybody can open the refrigerator and get those alcoholic beverages, right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And those refrigerated areas have see-through glass, right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You can see what's in that refrigerated area before you open it to get something?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you can see things like beer and wine in that area, right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall a key chain to the wine cellar hanging on a wall in the maids' room?
Maria Gomez: Well, before, a long time before, that key was used.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, after a large number of guests would be served dinner, would it be normal for you to have to clean in the wine cellar area?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: So you just did it when somebody requested it pretty much?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you clean -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. When you would clean in the wine cellar area, would you also clean the area that's next to the wine cellar?
Maria Gomez: What area?
Mr. Mesereau: The area that's right up to the wine cellar door.
Maria Gomez: The arcade?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you clean that area as well?
Maria Gomez: We would clean the counter. And the bath rooms.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember ever seeing any of the Arvizo children in the wine cellar area?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember ever seeing Janet Arvizo in the wine cellar area?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember ever seeing Gavin Arvizo drinking any alcoholic beverage?
Maria Gomez: I never saw.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember ever seeing Gavin Arvizo look like he was intoxicated?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember ever seeing Star Arvizo drinking any alcoholic beverage?
Maria Gomez: I never saw.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember ever seeing Star Arvizo look like he was intoxicated?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember ever seeing Davellin Arvizo drinking an alcoholic beverage?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you remember ever seeing Davellin Arvizo look like she was intoxicated?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Michael Jackson with any of the Arvizo children drinking alcohol?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Janet Arvizo ever complaining about Michael Jackson?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall Janet Arvizo ever saying nice things about Michael Jackson?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did she say?
Mr. Auchincloss: Object. Hearsay.
Mr. Mesereau: Not for the truth.
The Court: The objection's overruled.
Maria Gomez: That he was like a father.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. When do you recall hearing Janet Arvizo say that?
Maria Gomez: At that time.
Mr. Mesereau: And did she start the conversation with you?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did this conversation take place, if you remember?
Maria Gomez: I was in Gavin's room, Unit 3. I was doing the room, and she came in to either find him or get something from the room. And she began to speak to say that Michael Jackson was like a father to her children, and that she wanted them to call him “Dad”.
Mr. Mesereau: How long did that conversation last?
Maria Gomez: Oh, it was just a short while.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Janet Arvizo ever talk to you about her son's illness?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did she say?
Maria Gomez: Well, even though she spoke Spanish, she mentioned her child, her son's illness. On that occasion, she mentioned the illness and how he was improving. But she was speaking in English, so I couldn't really understand her exactly, what she was saying about the illness that her son had.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Janet Arvizo ever say that Michael Jackson had helped her son with his illness?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Janet Arvizo ever mention Michael Jackson when she was telling you about her son's illness?
Maria Gomez: How is that?
Mr. Mesereau: Well, did she ever say anything about Michael Jackson helping her family with the son's illness?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Maria Gomez: Yes. That he had been a blessing to them; and that he was the type of person -- he was like a father to her children.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear Janet Arvizo complain about Michael Jackson at any time?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Janet Arvizo ever tell you she was being held against her will at Neverland?
Maria Gomez: After that conversation, about a week later, she began to talk about being there against her will.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did she say?
Maria Gomez: That we should help her leave.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever mention someone named Dieter Weizner?
Maria Gomez: On that occasion she said that three persons, including that person Dieter, they were holding her there.
Mr. Mesereau: And did she say anything about they're interfering with her relationship with Michael Jackson?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Maria Gomez: That they were interfering with her relationship with him, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when did she say that Dieter Weizner and others were interfering with her relationship with Michael Jackson?
Maria Gomez: That happened almost at the time that they left.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever mention someone named Frank Cascio?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did she say he was interfering with Janet's relationship with Michael Jackson?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer -- the answer's “Yes”. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever mention a Vinnie Amen?
The Interpreter: I'm sorry, what was that?
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever mention someone named Vinnie Amen?
Maria Gomez: Oh, Vinnie, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she complain about him as well?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she say anything about whether he was interfering with her friendship with Michael Jackson?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you've mentioned Frank, Vinnie and Dieter. Did she say anyone else was interfering with her friendship with Michael Jackson that you recall?
Maria Gomez: No, just those three persons.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. At some point, do you recall Janet asking Jesus to take her home?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you with Janet and Jesus when you heard that?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And where were you?
Maria Gomez: In that -- on that occasion we were in Unit 4.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Jesus there as well?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did Janet say she wanted to leave Neverland?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, did Jesus agree to arrange to let her leave?
Maria Gomez: Not at that moment when I was there.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he do it at some point?
Maria Gomez: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he tell her he would arrange to have Frank or Vinnie take her home?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Maria Gomez: Yes. She wanted -- well, she did say that they were interfering.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, was she taken home at some point?
Maria Gomez: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall Janet telling you and Jesus that Frank and Vinnie were separating her from Michael Jackson?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: If I may take just one moment, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall -- excuse me. Mrs. Gomez, do you recall seeing any adult magazines at Neverland?
Maria Gomez: Yes, on one occasion.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall seeing any of those magazines with the Arvizo children?
Maria Gomez: Well, I'm pretty sure, yes, because in Unit 2 there was a backpack with those type of magazines.
Mr. Mesereau: And who was staying in Unit 2?
Maria Gomez: Davellin and Star.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you do when you saw those magazines in Unit 2?
Maria Gomez: I left them there.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell anyone about that?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you find them when you were cleaning?
Maria Gomez: Yes. But I just saw them.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you saw them in a backpack?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know who owned the backpack?
Maria Gomez: Well, I would suppose it was Star's.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember seeing -- was the backpack open?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall seeing these magazines wrapped in a shirt?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: When you saw the magazines in the backpack, were they in full view?
Maria Gomez: The backpack was slightly open, and I saw those magazines.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they appear to be wrapped inside of something?
Maria Gomez: No. That was another occasion. That was in his office.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; nonresponsive.
The Court: How do you know? (Laughter.)
Mr. Auchincloss: I took a guess.
The Court: I have to hear what she says. I don't --
Maria Gomez: There were two magazines in the lower cabinet under the sink.
Mr. Mesereau: And this was in the office area?
Maria Gomez: Yes, in the office.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever see adult magazines just laying around in the main house?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Good morning, Ms. Gomez.
Maria Gomez: Good morning.
Mr. Auchincloss: You have never cleaned Mr. Jackson's room, did you?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: In fact, over your nine years, you were only allowed in Mr. Jackson's room three times; isn't that true?
Maria Gomez: Yes, sometimes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And is that because Mr. Jackson only allowed certain people in his room to clean it?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: As far as adult magazines go, there would be no place for children to get adult magazines at Neverland unless some adult gave them to them; isn't that true?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Maria Gomez: I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, you said there's no magazines lying around. So for those kids to get adult magazines, someone would have to give them to them, right?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; no foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Maria Gomez: I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: As far as -- and you did testify that you have seen adult magazines in Mr. Jackson's office; is that correct?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you've seen adult magazines in a bathroom? Is that another area?
Maria Gomez: No, no, no. In the office, underneath the sink, I saw two magazines. And then in the children's room, Davellin and Star.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And that would be Mr. Jackson's office, the bathroom near Mr. Jackson's office, is that correct, where you saw those magazines?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, you've been an employee of Neverland for nine years straight; is that correct?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you value your job there?
Maria Gomez: Of course.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you sign a confidentiality agreement when you went to work at Neverland not to discuss things off of -- when you leave the property?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did you know that your phone calls can be monitored at Neverland?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Maria Gomez: I had an idea that they were, that the calls would be checked, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And do most employees of Mr. Jackson know that their phone calls can be monitored when they're at Neverland?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; calls for speculation.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, when you were interviewed at Neverland on November 18th, the day of the search warrant, do you remember that day?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: You told the officer that the Arvizo children were polite and normal, true?
Maria Gomez: I said that, but I felt intimidated that day.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And you said that the Arvizo children would make quite a mess in their room; isn't that correct?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And they'd eat a lot of candy?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Isn't it fair to say that most children who come and visit at Neverland eat a lot of candy?
Maria Gomez: But those children, they were even more special. They ate more than was normal.
Mr. Auchincloss: But most of the children at Neverland eat all the candy they want; isn't that right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And do they act like children -- the children that eat candy, do they act differently? Do they act like they're full of sugar?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; vague.
Mr. Auchincloss: Maybe I'll ask the question a little differently. Ask for foundation.
Mr. Auchincloss: Have you ever noticed how children act when they've been eating a lot of sugar?
Maria Gomez: Yes. But those children would get a lot of candy.
Mr. Auchincloss: Object as nonresponsive.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. He's cutting off the witness.
The Court: The objection is overruled. I'll strike the second part of the answer. The answer is, “Yes”.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: You said that their rooms would be messy, the Arvizo children's rooms would be messy?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: The sheets would be off the bed, and the Arvizo children would play in those rooms during the daytime, wouldn't they?
Maria Gomez: They came and went, I would assume.
Mr. Auchincloss: Because you didn't stay there at night after, say, nine o'clock, did you?
Maria Gomez: Not in the rooms.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes. And didn't you say you normally left Neverland around 9 p.m.?
Maria Gomez: Yes, 9:00 or 10:00.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So you don't know where children would sleep at Neverland after that time, do you?
Maria Gomez: I would assume in their rooms. I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: But without assuming, you don't really know, do you?
Maria Gomez: No, I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, when you heard this remark about Frank and Dieter and Vinnie trying to interfere with Miss Arvizo's family and Mr. Jackson, was that conversation in English or in Spanish?
Maria Gomez: In English.
Mr. Auchincloss: And Miss Arvizo told you she liked Michael Jackson, true?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever hear any of the children refer to Michael Jackson as “Daddy” or “Dad” when Michael Jackson was there, any of the Arvizo children?
Maria Gomez: I did not hear that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who were Vinnie -- who was Vinnie? Let's start with him. Do you know who Vinnie is?
Maria Gomez: Well, I only knew that he was Frank's friend.
Mr. Auchincloss: And who is Frank?
Maria Gomez: A friend of Mr. -- Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, when the Arvizo children were there in February and March, they were there for almost a month; isn't that true?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know why they were taken out of school to stay at Neverland for that period of time?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; assumes facts not in evidence.
Maria Gomez: No.
The Court: Overruled. The answer is, “No”. Next question.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you also stated that Janet stayed in her room most of the time in February and March; is that correct?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you. No further questions.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down. Let's start our break early.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: I understand there's an issue that needs to be heard. Mr. Zonen?
Mr. Zonen: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: Who is your next witness?
Mr. Sanger: We have Mr. Vivanco, Your Honor.
The Court: It's in regard to this witness?
Mr. Zonen: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: Something you want to add?
Mr. Sneddon: Ron?
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, the brief that we filed dated May 11th --
The Bailiff: Can you turn your microphone on, please?
Mr. Zonen: The brief that we have filed dated May 11th, 2005, illustrates the points we believe are irrelevant to this proceeding. And we believe, under 352 and general rules of relevancy, that this witness ought not be allowed to engage in any of those questions or offer commentary on any of those facts.
Mr. Sanger: We filed our brief showing the five areas of exceedingly relevant testimony that we believe this witness will testify to. And other than going on a question-by-question basis, if there's something that is -- there's no foundation for, or some other objection of that sort, I don't see any need for the Court to make a ruling in advance. On the initial issue regarding the details of specific acts, we had conceded that long ago, so I don't think that is an issue before the Court. We had no intention of asking specifically about that after we filed a brief in response. And there was another brief listing a number of potential objections to what potentially might be done. And I believe there's a foundation for everything we intend to ask. I think it should be question by question.
The Court: I don't know what you intend to ask. Do you mean you filed something in response to the one where there's A through M?
Mr. Sanger: No. We had filed --
The Court: I have seen the previous ones.
Mr. Sanger: We filed the one with the five different categories.
The Court: Which date was that? I want to be sure I'm looking at the right one.
Mr. Sanger: May 12th, I believe. Called “Response to Motion to Exclude”, and specifically in that response we indicated that we believed that the real issue -- the issue that was raised initially was resolved. And so based on colloquy, we set forth the five basic reasons why this testimony is relevant to these proceedings.
The Court: Well --
Mr. Sanger: And the District Attorney filed something I think a day later. We did not file another response because we felt we had responded.
The Court: Okay. Well, I agree with the District Attorney's brief that certain things are not relevant. And just on reading it, I believe that A through N are properly objected to.
Mr. Sanger: A through M?
The Court: A through N.
Mr. Sanger: N.
The Court: But I didn't see any of your other materials that you intended to ask those questions, but I don't think they exclude you from covering the areas that you indicated that you were going to cover. But these are areas that are properly objected to, so I'll sustain their objections to those questions. If you want to take a minute to go through them -- I assume you've already gone through them.
Mr. Sanger: I have not only gone through them, but I left them back in my office, so I have everything but that.
The Court: Do you want to look at mine? I was afraid I had left something of yours in my office when you said there were five things, but now I see what they're referring to. They weren't numbered 1 to 5. They just happened to be five things. So if you want to look at those for just a minute so there's no confusion about what my ruling is.
Mr. Sanger: From what Your Honor is saying, I take it Your Honor has ruled and you're not inviting any argument on this?
The Court: Well, you didn't have the paper in front of you. If there's something you want to address, I would certainly listen to you.
Mr. Sanger: Well, in general, and that's -- I felt we had answered it, but maybe not. In general, all of these, as I'm looking at them here, with the exception of N and L -- and now I have the paper and you don't.
The Court: Right.
Mr. Sanger: With the exception of L and N -- and I'll give it back to you. So with the exception of “Lincoln” and “Nora”, L and N, which we do not intend to ask L and N, the rest of them would be admissible, I think, for two reasons. One, for direct impeachment for both Davellin and Janet Arvizo, because they both testified absolutely to the contrary as to each one of those points. And secondly, for the state of mind of both Davellin -- Davellin and Janet Arvizo, because they both testified that contrary to those points that were made, all the other points except L and N, that they were -- for instance, David was the bad guy. Much evidence was introduced by the prosecution on that. This flies in the face of it and it's an admission. But Davellin said she basically stayed in the room with her mother at all times, and yet she's out talking to people and talking to this particular witness and being very expressive about her upset with her mother. Her mother portrays herself as being concerned about her children, and that her children are close to her. And instead, that the children are -- this particular daughter is calling the mother various names and making statements. I mean, that's a public record. I'm not repeating it unnecessarily. I mean, it's a totally different picture than the picture painted by the prosecution through the testimony of both Janet and Davellin. It also shows --
The Court: You can't impeach Janet's testimony with this, and a lot of this you didn't ask Davellin. So the only purpose for impeachment -- you know, you can't impeach Janet with what Davellin says.
Mr. Sanger: I understand, Your Honor. It impeaches Davellin to the extent that she was saying her mother was sincere and in her room and was afraid that her -- some of the direct statements to the effect that all of these children, including Davellin, have made about their biological father. And it turns out she misses her father. She blames her mother for that. Those are direct contradictions to her testimony that she's given so far.
The Court: Well, I guess one of the problems I'm having is recalling which question you asked which of the children.
Mr. Sanger: Let me remind the Court for a moment. Maybe this will help. Remember Mr. Mesereau did the questioning. But Mr. Mesereau did the questioning of Davellin. And in the course of that, he had asked her about Carol LaMere, and Davellin immediately volunteered, “Carol LaMere is a terrible person. She made me clean her house”. And then Janet testified to the same thing. Whereas this witness will say she is saying she stayed with this friend. She wanted to get away from her mother. That Davellin was asked by Mr. Mesereau, “Did you tell Carol LaMere that you didn't want to be with your mother?” “No, I never said that. I didn't stay there very long”.
The Court: The only way you can impeach that is to have Carol LaMere come and say that she said that.
Mr. Sanger: We will.
The Court: So what she tells or didn't tell this person doesn't impeach that, because you didn't ask her, “Did you tell this person that?” You're trying to bootstrap yourself into something here.
Mr. Sanger: Well, we're not impeaching her statements about Carol LaMere. We're impeaching the other statements that were made in the course of that questioning by Mr. Mesereau to the effect of, “Did you get along with your mother?” “Were you” -- “Did you try to get away from her?” And this shows that those answers -- Carol LaMere was kind of the lead-in to that, but the direct questions I believe were asked of Davellin by Mr. Mesereau.
The Court: Well --
Mr. Sanger: And she denied it.
The Court: See, if you'd responded to me in this brief with the cites where those questions had been asked, that would have been helpful.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
The Court: It's not helpful to give me a general statement that all of this rebuts something that was said.
Mr. Sanger: I understand, Your Honor.
The Court: And I think, you know, absent you being able to show me those quotes that would justify these questions, I'll stand by my ruling.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
The Court: Let's bring in the jury.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence and hearing of the jury:
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, if we may, we'll call a different witness so we have a chance to look at this, if we might briefly.
The Court: Yes, that's fine. Respond to the specific items.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor. The defense will call Mr. Shane Meridith.
The Court: All right. Remain standing, please. Face the clerk here, and raise your right hand.
Message: SHANE MERIDITH Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Shane Meridith: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Shane Meridith: Shane Meridith. It's S-h-a-n-e. Last name is M-e-r-i-d-i-t-h.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good afternoon, Mr. Meridith.
Shane Meridith: How are you?
Mr. Mesereau: Good, thanks. Where is your home?
Shane Meridith: Santa Maria, California.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long have you lived in Santa Maria?
Shane Meridith: About five years now.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you familiar with the fellow seated at counsel table to my right?
Shane Meridith: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Who is that?
Shane Meridith: Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: How do you know that?
Shane Meridith: I used to work for him.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you work for Mr. Jackson?
Shane Meridith: From 2002 till 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you work at Neverland?
Shane Meridith: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was your job there?
Shane Meridith: I was a security officer.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you a security officer for the whole time of your employment?
Shane Meridith: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have any training in security work before you worked at Neverland?
Shane Meridith: No, not really.
Mr. Mesereau: What was your work history, just in summary?
Shane Meridith: Prior to that, I was mostly in sales.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have any training in firefighting?
Shane Meridith: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you have any training to do your job in security at the ranch?
Shane Meridith: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: What was it?
Shane Meridith: The training that we received from the ranch, which was from individuals that worked there. Supervisors trained us on basic techniques, you know, as far as detaining people or interrogating people, things like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Who did the training program for you?
Shane Meridith: Mine was a supervisor -- or two supervisors, Julio Magana and Curtis Gordon.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you do at Neverland as a security officer?
Shane Meridith: Basically view day-to-day activities, answer phones, maintained the security of the ranch itself. Make sure that, you know, everybody that was there was supposed to be there, and people that weren't supposed to be there weren't allowed to come on. Things like that.
Mr. Mesereau: What kind of shift did you work typically?
Shane Meridith: Typically my shift was 6 p.m. to 6 a.m.
Mr. Mesereau: And was that your shift during the entire period of employment at Neverland?
Shane Meridith: Roughly. Some of them would vary. I think Sundays I would work a day shift, which was 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet someone named Janet Arvizo?
Shane Meridith: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first meet her?
Shane Meridith: It must have been -- well, it was in 2002. It was probably February, maybe March of 2002.
Mr. Mesereau: Would it be 2003, do you think?
Shane Meridith: Maybe around Christmastime of 2002.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. That's when you first met her?
Shane Meridith: Yeah, I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did you meet her?
Shane Meridith: On the property.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Shane Meridith: She was actually -- when they were coming onto the property, I met her at the front gate.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever see her on the property while you were working there?
Shane Meridith: Yes, sir, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many times do you think you saw Janet Arvizo at Neverland when you were working at Neverland? Possibly five times. Five or six times.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you see her doing?
Shane Meridith: Mostly just walking around the property. Either from the bungalow areas to the house itself or just, you know, hanging around by the front of the house where our security station was.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you talk to her from time to time?
Shane Meridith: I think I had one conversation with her.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And where did that conversation take place?
Shane Meridith: That took place in front of the security office close to the main house.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Did you see her in any other location other than near the main house, that you recall?
Shane Meridith: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Shane Meridith: Not that I recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet her kids?
Shane Meridith: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you meet her children?
Shane Meridith: Roughly the same time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And they were Gavin, Star, and Davellin, right?
Shane Meridith: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you see them?
Shane Meridith: You'd see them all over the ranch. They used to come up to the front security office sometimes riding bicycles. I'd see them at the theater. I'd actually take them from the house, from the main house, up to the theater periodically, as I did, you know, many guests. But all throughout the ranch.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you talk to them from time to time?
Shane Meridith: Yes, I would.
Mr. Mesereau: And why would you talk to them?
Shane Meridith: Just speaking to -- like I said, to all guests. Just basic conversation, “How you doing?” Things of that nature. “Can I get anything for you?” You know, stuff like that. Stuff of that nature.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Michael Jackson with Janet Arvizo?
Shane Meridith: No, I don't believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Michael Jackson with her children?
Shane Meridith: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you recall seeing?
Shane Meridith: Just them walking around the house area or going up to the theater to view a movie.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Michael Jackson do anything you thought was inappropriate with those children?
Shane Meridith: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you say you saw Michael Jackson and the children walking up to the theater?
Shane Meridith: Yeah, they were -- once they were walking, and also I remember taking them up in a van, as well.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was the purpose in going to the theater, if you knew?
Shane Meridith: To view a movie. They were watching a movie. I'm not sure -- it was a new release of some kind.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the kids seem to do that very often?
Shane Meridith: They used to go up to the theater quite often. Not necessarily to view movies, but just to go up there. There was candy and various other things for them to go up there and have.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, if Gavin, Star and Davellin went to the theater, how would they arrange to have a movie shown; do you know?
Shane Meridith: They would usually -- somebody from the house would usually contact one of us and we would either contact the projectionist, or they would either contact, you know, a security officer that was directly in their sight, and then we would contact a projectionist and have them come up to put the movie on.
Mr. Mesereau: Would that happen any time of day?
Shane Meridith: Yes. If there was a projectionist on property, that could happen any time of day, night, whatever.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall seeing the Arvizo children at the theater in the evening?
Shane Meridith: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times do you think you saw the Arvizo children at the theater in the evening?
Shane Meridith: I think the two times that I recall them walking up, and the second time with me taking them in the van, they were both in the evening time.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you, as part of your work, go into the main house ever?
Shane Meridith: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what would you do in the main house?
Shane Meridith: Either deliver messages, or there was a couple of occasions that I was sent in to wake up some individuals that were -- that were in the house.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And who were they?
Shane Meridith: Those were the owner's nephews that were upstairs.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you remember their names?
Shane Meridith: No, I do not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And they were Michael Jackson's nephews?
Shane Meridith: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Where were they?
Shane Meridith: They were upstairs in the owner's room.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And describe, if you would, where they were.
Shane Meridith: They were -- when I woke them up, the -- I woke them up on two different occasions. And the first occasion I believe they were on the floor in sleeping bags. And the second time they were up and about, you know, already walking around the room, but they just didn't want to get up, I guess, or something.
Mr. Mesereau: This is in Michael Jackson's bedroom area?
Shane Meridith: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you please describe that room area?
Shane Meridith: I only saw it from the doorway, which was -- you open the door, I just remember seeing -- there's a bed and then the floor area. There's a lot of stuff that was in there. You know, a lot of tables and lamps and things like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you walk through that area?
Shane Meridith: No, I didn't go into the room.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you knock on the door?
Shane Meridith: Yes. Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And someone answered?
Shane Meridith: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Who was that?
Shane Meridith: That was one of the nephews at the door.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point you saw them sleeping in the room area; is that right?
Shane Meridith: That's correct. That was on the first occasion I saw them sleeping in the sleeping bags.
Mr. Mesereau: Where were the sleeping bags?
Shane Meridith: On the floor. They were right near the door in the sleeping bags.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you said that was a couple of occasions that you saw that?
Shane Meridith: Them on the sleeping bags?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Shane Meridith: Only on the one. I woke them up on a couple of occasions, but most of the time they were already up. I saw the sleeping bags, but they were usually -- just on the two occasions. The first occasion, there was a couple -- the one nephew was actually in the bed -- I mean, in the sleeping bag. But the other occasion, they were already up. The bags were down.
Mr. Mesereau: And please describe what Mr. Jackson's nephews look like.
Shane Meridith: Slender, fairly tall for their age, I would think. African-American. That's about --
Mr. Mesereau: Boy? Girl?
Shane Meridith: Oh, they were both -- the two boys.
Mr. Mesereau: Uh-huh. Okay. All right. Did you ever see the Arvizo children in Mr. Jackson's personal quarters?
Shane Meridith: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever bringing any soda or popcorn to Mr. Jackson's personal quarters and seeing the Arvizo children in there?
Shane Meridith: Yeah, actually I did bring the popcorn. They requested some popcorn and they were in there, that's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Who made the request?
Shane Meridith: That was made by, I believe, Star. I believe Star was the one who made the phone call to the security office.
Mr. Mesereau: And he asked for someone to bring popcorn to Mr. Jackson's quarters?
Shane Meridith: Yeah, if I could bring some popcorn, sodas, you know, Red Hots, snack items from the theater. They didn't want to have to come downstairs and go to the theater.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you do that for them?
Shane Meridith: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk to Star on the phone?
Shane Meridith: Yes, I did. Yeah, that was -- I took the phone call.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it part of your responsibilities to respond to requests like that?
Shane Meridith: Sure. It wasn't out of the norm for me to do that.
Mr. Mesereau: If a guest asked for popcorn or food be delivered, would you be one of the people who would do that at Neverland?
Shane Meridith: Absolutely.
Mr. Mesereau: This is during the night shift?
Shane Meridith: Night shift, day shift, yeah, whenever. Any request that was given by a guest, we were more than happy to help them out.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you bring the food to Mr. Jackson's personal quarters?
Shane Meridith: Yes, correct.
Mr. Mesereau: In response to Star's request?
Shane Meridith: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately what time of day do you think this was?
Shane Meridith: This was in the evening. It was probably eight o'clock, 8:30, maybe, p.m.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you go into Mr. Jackson's room?
Shane Meridith: No, I didn't. I stood at the door.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have a chance to look into the room?
Shane Meridith: I don't believe I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall seeing any sleeping bags in Mr. Jackson's room?
Shane Meridith: Not on that particular night, no. As a matter of fact, on that particular night, I saw the children later on in their -- their sleeping quarters down, you know, by the officers' station, those bungalow areas. They were -- that night they were down there.
Mr. Mesereau: These are the Arvizo children?
Shane Meridith: Those are the Arvizo children.
Mr. Mesereau: And you're referring to Gavin, Star and Davellin?
Shane Meridith: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did you actually see them?
Shane Meridith: On that night?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Shane Meridith: They were -- later on, probably about an hour and a half after I brought the candy and popcorn to them, they were in their sleeping quarters, and that would be -- I'm not sure if it was the -- Room 1 or Room 2. It was one of the rooms. And they were -- you know, they were inside. They were in their pajamas, ready for bed, watching T.V.
Mr. Mesereau: And why is it that you went into the guest quarters and saw the Arvizo children?
Shane Meridith: I was doing my rounds around that area, the light was on, and they were goofing around. They opened the door and they saw me, and we had a little conversation.
Mr. Mesereau: What time of night do you think this was?
Shane Meridith: It had to be around 11:00. Yeah, it was later at night. I know that, because the lights were -- if they weren't already off, the lights on the property were getting ready to be shut off. I'm not sure, but it was probably 11:00, 11:30.
Mr. Mesereau: Typically in your work, would you check out the guest quarters from time to time?
Shane Meridith: Absolutely. We would do that on 15- to 30-minute increments. We would check the guest quarters as well as the main house, the perimeter checks.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you check guest quarters, what do you do?
Shane Meridith: Just walk around the guest quarters themselves, make sure that the doors are locked that are supposed to be locked, and, you know, make sure that the guests are either okay, or if they have anything that they need, or, you know, we would give them what they need, things like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when this was? And I'm talking about the time you first saw the Arvizo kids in Mr. Jackson's room and then later on saw them in the guest quarters.
Shane Meridith: The difference in time frame or the exact time of night?
Mr. Mesereau: Let me state that better. I asked a poor question. I'm talking about the month and year.
Shane Meridith: Oh. Probably the beginning of 2003. I left employment in April, so it had to be prior to April. Maybe February.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember seeing the Arvizos during a time when you thought it was their final visit?
Shane Meridith: Well, I didn't know if it was their final visit, but I recall them -- seeing them when they were packing out at a late hour.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall seeing them leave?
Shane Meridith: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever see them come back again?
Shane Meridith: After that, no, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, when -- let me rephrase that. The time you saw them earlier in Mr. Jackson's room and then later on in the guest quarters, was that close to the time when you believe they were last at Neverland?
Shane Meridith: Yeah, that was probably the last visit they were there. If not, it was around the last visit they were there.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you checked the guest quarters, you think, around 11:30, right?
Shane Meridith: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you check them again that evening?
Shane Meridith: Well, yeah, like I said, I would do my every 15- to 30-minute checks, and then after -- after midnight, one o'clock, I think one o'clock would have been my last check, right around that time frame, and then I was to relieve the officer at the front gate.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, in the main house, when you would do your security checks, where would you go?
Shane Meridith: Around the house. We would check the arcade, the bathrooms, the pool area, and just around the main house in general.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know where the wine cellar is?
Shane Meridith: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And as part of your security check, would you go into the wine cellar from time to time?
Shane Meridith: Periodically. It wasn't a complete destination, but we would -- we would check the -- to make sure that the lights were off down in that -- in that little corridor, as well as the jukebox was placed in front of it blocking the entrance.
Mr. Mesereau: And how often would you check that area of the house during your shift?
Shane Meridith: If I was on the 12-hour shift, personally I would check that area -- I would go through the arcade every occasion that I would do a house check, which was every 30 -- you know, 30 minutes. So -- but I wouldn't physically go down to check the door unless there was reason to believe that that area was -- you know, there was somebody down there or there was a reason to check that door physically.
Mr. Mesereau: What kind of a reason would you need to do a security check of the wine cellar?
Shane Meridith: Either I saw lights, heard a noise, the jukebox was moved away from the area, or someone had requested that I go to check that area. Or if I knew that people were actually in the arcade, then I would go down and check that area.
Mr. Mesereau: During any of your security checks in February of 2003, did you ever find Gavin and Star in the wine cellar?
Shane Meridith: I did find them in the wine cellar. And I'm not sure of the time frame when they were there, but there was a night that I did find them in the wine cellar, or an evening.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it in the year 2003, to your knowledge?
Shane Meridith: I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Were they with anybody else?
Shane Meridith: No, it was just the two of them.
Mr. Mesereau: Why did you go into the wine cellar to check it on that particular day?
Shane Meridith: The jukebox was moved away from the stairwell, and I could see that there was a light on from under the door. Because the game room was dark, there was no light on in the game room, so I could see the light from under the door.
Mr. Mesereau: You went down the stairs?
Shane Meridith: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: You went to see the wine cellar, correct?
Shane Meridith: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you see?
Shane Meridith: When I walked in, I saw the two children laughing, giggling, whatever. They were -- they were obviously startled. I kind of snuck down on them, because I wasn't sure who was down there. And they kind of looked at me, and, you know, were laughing, and I could see them with a bottle of alcohol that was in front of them.
Mr. Mesereau: Was the bottle open?
Shane Meridith: Yes, it was.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you say anything to them?
Shane Meridith: Yeah, I told them that they needed to get out of that area right now and get upstairs, which they did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see Michael Jackson anywhere near that wine cellar on that occasion?
Shane Meridith: No. No, he wasn't there.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there anybody else there besides Gavin and Star?
Shane Meridith: No, it was just the two boys.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they seem to respond to your request?
Shane Meridith: Yeah. Yeah, they were pretty shaken.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you see next?
Shane Meridith: Then I just inspected the area to see exactly -- to see if I could figure out exactly what they were doing down there, and that's when I took a closer look at the bottle and I noticed there was -- some of the contents were missing out of the bottle.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you determine how much of the bottle was -- excuse me, how much of the contents of the bottle was missing?
Shane Meridith: It was about half full.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember who was -- was anybody holding the bottle?
Shane Meridith: No, they were just standing. The bottle was on the table. There was a little kitchenette area that's in the -- in that wine cellar area. And the bottle was in front of them, and the two boys were kind of around the bottle, but nobody was physically -- I didn't see anybody physically holding it.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you -- did you ask them to leave?
Shane Meridith: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they leave?
Shane Meridith: Yes, they did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they leave quickly?
Shane Meridith: Yes, they did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they actually run up the stairs?
Shane Meridith: Yes, they scurried.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Did they say anything to you in response to your request that they leave?
Shane Meridith: Nothing, other than they were -- they were kind of caught off guard, so they were, you know, a little surprised. And they just -- they just took off, you know, when I told them that they needed to be -- that they weren't supposed to be down there and they needed to be upstairs, they -- you know, they turned and hightailed it out of there.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some point, you saw the Arvizos leave for what you think was the last trip from Neverland, right?
Shane Meridith: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately how close to that date the incident in the wine cellar was?
Shane Meridith: I think it was the visit prior to that. It was -- it was fairly close. I mean, all their visits were -- that I recall, were very close together towards the end of their -- that last visit, or that I assumed was the last visit, because I didn't see them after that again.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall the time you think they left for the final time?
Shane Meridith: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when was that?
Shane Meridith: That was, I believe, in February, March.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you see them actually in the process of leaving?
Shane Meridith: That's correct. Yeah, I was doing a house check, and they were -- the -- they were being packed out -- they had -- one of the limos was in the back of the house, and Jesus Salas was helping them with their luggage, which there was a lot of luggage that was being packed up, so I helped them pack that luggage up.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they ask you for your help or did you volunteer it?
Shane Meridith: I volunteered my help.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did they seem to want you to help them?
Shane Meridith: Oh, sure. The kids weren't doing anything physically. They were just getting ready for the ride home. They were kind of watching us do the labor.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk to Janet at all as you were helping them load the car?
Shane Meridith: No, I did not. No. I spoke to the children, but I didn't speak to her.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the children appear upset at all?
Shane Meridith: No, not at all.
Mr. Mesereau: What was your impression of their demeanor?
Shane Meridith: They were in fairly good spirits. I mean, despite how -- you know, whatever. It was kind of a late hour. I know it was probably one o'clock, two o'clock in the morning. But they seemed in pretty good spirits. I mean, they said -- you know, they said goodbye and they'd see me again on the next visit.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear Janet Arvizo ever complain about Michael Jackson?
Shane Meridith: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear Gavin Arvizo ever complain about Michael Jackson?
Shane Meridith: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear Star Arvizo ever complain about Michael Jackson?
Shane Meridith: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever hear Davellin Arvizo complain about Michael Jackson?
Shane Meridith: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Janet Arvizo say anything to you at any time about being held against her will at Neverland?
Shane Meridith: Not to me.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when you were helping them load their luggage into the vehicle, what do you recall actually putting into the vehicle?
Shane Meridith: Duffel bags. They were, you know, like gym bags, sort of large duffel bags. That's what I helped load in. You know, I got there at the tail end of the loading, so I just -- there was maybe three bags left, four bags. I know there was some toys and things, too. But most of them were duffel bags. And like I say, it was the tail end of the packing.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see a backpack?
Shane Meridith: I do not recall a backpack.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Who owned the duffel bags, if you know?
Shane Meridith: I don't know. I believe they were everyone's. I mean, you know, they didn't actually have names on them and nobody was standing next to them to claim either one of them. They just -- they were just there by the back of the car and I helped load them in the back of the car.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you help Janet load her possessions into the vehicle?
Shane Meridith: I'm not sure if any of those possessions were Janet's or not. Like I say, nobody laid claim to anything that I loaded in there. They were just standing, watching, and I helped load those bags in.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that the last time you saw them?
Shane Meridith: That was the last time that I saw them, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever speak to Janet on the phone at any time?
Shane Meridith: Merely to -- yeah, actually, I did. But it was merely to pass along messages to the -- to the owner.
Mr. Mesereau: And how often did you do that?
Shane Meridith: I probably spoke to her on the phone maybe twice, three times.
Mr. Mesereau: So she would call you to give a message to Michael Jackson?
Shane Meridith: She would call to see if she could be put through to Mr. Jackson. And we would try to ring him and get him on the phone that way, or we would just send her -- send the call directly to the house itself, and she could try her luck that way.
Mr. Mesereau: As far as you know, was that the standard way she tried to reach Michael?
Shane Meridith: As far as I know, yeah. That's how she pretty much tried to reach him.
Mr. Mesereau: So she would try to go through you to get connected to Michael Jackson?
Shane Meridith: That's correct. Now, if she called a private line or something like that, I would have no knowledge of that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, did you have any knowledge, during the time you worked at Neverland, about how one would get into the wine cellar?
Shane Meridith: Yes. Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: What was your knowledge about that?
Shane Meridith: You would -- the door was usually locked, but it wasn't always locked, and you would have to -- you'd have to unlock that door to gain access to it. But the door was always shut.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever determine how the two Arvizo boys got into that cellar?
Shane Meridith: No, I did not. And I didn't take it any further than what it was. I told the house manager about the incident and I told my supervisor about - Violet Silva - the incident. But other than that, I didn't do any further investigating as far as how they got into the cellar.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the only time you saw Gavin and Star Arvizo drinking in the wine cellar?
Shane Meridith: Well, that was the only time I saw them in the wine cellar, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know anything about where a key was kept to get into that cellar?
Shane Meridith: We had a key in the officers' station, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And where was that kept?
Shane Meridith: That key was kept in our filing cabinet, locked in the top of the filing cabinet.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if there was a key in an employee break room?
Shane Meridith: That I do not know. Possibly. I mean, that's a good possibility. Somebody in the house might have had -- one of the house individuals might have had a key.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when you say “possibly”, what do you mean?
Shane Meridith: Well, I mean, I don't recall them ever --
Mr. Auchincloss: Object.
Shane Meridith: Go ahead.
Mr. Auchincloss: Object. Foundation.
The Court: Overruled. You may complete your answer.
Shane Meridith: Can you repeat it?
Mr. Mesereau: Let me withdraw the question and ask it again. You said possibly there was another place where a key was kept, in the employee break room?
Shane Meridith: Right. Yeah, I knew that there was keys that were located in the break room, but I didn't know what those keys were or what they were to.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see any of the Arvizo children in that area?
Shane Meridith: Personally, I did not see anybody in that area. It wasn't frequently that I would go into that area, though, since it was located in the house.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, how many keys were there to the wine cellar at Neverland?
Shane Meridith: To my knowledge, I would assume it was just our key. We had the only key. I mean, I don't know for sure, but that's the only key that I was aware of.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if Joe Marcus, for example, had access to a key?
Shane Meridith: Possibly. I mean, that could be possible.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if the cooks had access to keys?
Shane Meridith: I don't believe the key -- the cooks did, because I recall them frequently asking us to unlock that door for them.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have any knowledge of cooks going up and down the stairs into the wine cellar to get food that was in the refrigerated wine cellar?
Shane Meridith: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. But do you have any idea how they would gain access when they did that?
Shane Meridith: When they did that, they would ask us for access into the cellar. It was pretty frequent that we would -- if they needed access to that cellar, that we would open it and just leave it open, since they would be going -- if they were going to be getting food or drinks or whatever from that cellar, they would need nonstop access, so we would just leave it open, and they would come and go as they pleased. It wasn't feasible for us to continually open and lock, open and lock, open and lock, every time they needed to get access to it.
Mr. Mesereau: So are you saying that there were periods of time when it was open for quite a while?
Shane Meridith: Yes, that's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And when it was open, how long would it be open?
Shane Meridith: Well, it depends on the -- on the checks. If there was nobody -- if there was visibly nobody that was entering the wine cellar, and we could see that they were done there, we were doing our 15- or 30-minute checks, then we'd go ahead and secure it. But if we could still see individuals coming and going, we would leave it open. So it just depended on visually what we saw on our rounds, on our checks.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, if you had a large event at Neverland, where a lot of food was being prepared by the cooks, would it be accurate to say that probably the wine cellar might be open for hours so people could go back and forth with -- and get food or wine?
Shane Meridith: That would be -- that would be a fair assumption, yeah. It could be open for an entire shift.
Mr. Mesereau: When you saw Gavin and Star Arvizo in the wine cellar alone, you had no idea how they got in there, right?
Shane Meridith: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ask them, “How did you get in?”
Shane Meridith: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you see them all over Neverland while they were visiting?
Shane Meridith: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What would you see them doing?
Shane Meridith: Usually playing. They were either, like I said, at the theater, riding the go-carts -- I mean, the golf carts. On the rides. Up at the train station. Back at the zoo. They'd be everywhere, just doing, you know, what -- basically just doing whatever they wanted to.
Mr. Mesereau: In your opinion, were they well behaved?
Shane Meridith: Not -- not -- I mean, they weren't completely out -- they were acting, you know, not like totally out of control, but they were pretty much -- you know, they were there to have fun, and they were -- there was occasions where they'd break things, let me put it that way. I mean, there's occasions where they would, you know, destroy some property.
Mr. Mesereau: What property are you talking about?
Shane Meridith: Golf cart. They crashed a golf cart and did some damage to it, which they -- which they denied doing. But later they admitted to doing it. And I believe that's the only real damage, other than turning rocks over or just throwing trash around and, you know, things like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Where would they throw trash around?
Shane Meridith: Pretty much anywhere they were at around the ranch. They'd throw, you know, wrappers of candy bars, and things like that, just kind of anywhere.
Mr. Mesereau: Anything else they did that bothered you?
Shane Meridith: There wasn't -- you know, there wasn't -- like I said, they weren't -- they weren't too bad.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when they crashed the go-carts, did you make a report?
Shane Meridith: A report was made, but it wasn't made by me. One of the other officers made that report.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you actually see it happen?
Shane Meridith: I saw the golf cart. I didn't witness them crashing. I saw them coming from the area where that golf cart was, but I didn't actually -- I don't think anyone actually witnessed the -- you know, the crashing of the golf cart. But they were the only people -- they were the only kids that were there at that time, the only people.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, was your job at Neverland the first job you had had in the area of security?
Shane Meridith: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how are you currently employed?
Shane Meridith: I'm employed at the Lompoc prison.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What do you do there?
Shane Meridith: I'm a correctional officer.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. No further questions.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Good afternoon, Mr. Meridith.
Shane Meridith: Good afternoon sir. How are you doing?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm doing very well, thank you. Your job as a security officer at Neverland, part of that job was to prevent intruders from coming onto Neverland; is that fair?
Shane Meridith: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you wear a uniform for that job?
Shane Meridith: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: All the security guards wear uniforms?
Shane Meridith: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Pretty visible presence there at Neverland?
Shane Meridith: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is that designed to give intruders some visible presence so that they know that they're going to have to get through the security guard to get onto the property?
Shane Meridith: Yes, sir, that's a fair assumption.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And the guests are aware of your presence?
Shane Meridith: Absolutely.
Mr. Auchincloss: And your job is to keep them safe as much as the owner; is that fair to say?
Shane Meridith: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Now, as far as the Arvizo boys at Neverland, you mentioned that they were a little rambunctious; is that a fair assessment?
Shane Meridith: That's fair, yeah.
Mr. Auchincloss: And is it also fair to say that all the kids who come and stay at Neverland for extended periods eventually start to become pretty rambunctious?
Shane Meridith: Eventually. There's no real supervision, and kids are going to be kids. So it's not uncommon for -- children that, you know, are on the ranch kind of get the emperor feeling and kind of act up.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is it fair to say that the fact there really is no supervision, they get to kind of do whatever they please, one thing leads to another, and that's probably when they start to get somewhat destructive or rambunctious?
Shane Meridith: I'm sure, yeah, that's a fair assumption.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. What about Mr. Jackson's cousins, would you characterize them in the same fashion?
Shane Meridith: They -- they pretty much came and went. You know, they were never there for an extended period of time. They would maybe be a night or two nights or a weekend, so they were -- they were -- they were pretty much okay. I don't think they had a lot of idle time. They were there strictly to visit and then they would go. I don't recall them ever doing anything other than playing basketball.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would they ever break things?
Shane Meridith: That I -- I don't know. No, I don't recall. I don't recall that they ever broke anything.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, at one time you were interviewed by, I believe, the defense investigator, and you indicated to him that you thought the wine incident was around Christmas of 2002; is that --
Shane Meridith: Yeah, it was roughly around the time of their -- you know, all in that area, the Christmas, February, March. I mean, it was all around that time. I'm not real sure on the exact time frame.
Mr. Auchincloss: As far as your patrol duties go, your patrol duties don't really take you inside the main house unless there's some specific reason; is that fair?
Shane Meridith: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And this one incident where you went into the main house to -- actually, I believe you said there were two incidents where you went into the main house to wake up the nephews?
Shane Meridith: Correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you said you went upstairs to do that; is that right?
Shane Meridith: That's correct. Yeah.
Mr. Auchincloss: So you went to a bedroom up the main staircase?
Shane Meridith: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: So as you enter Neverland, or I should say as you enter the main house through the main front doors, to the right is a stairway?
Shane Meridith: That's correct. I would come in from the back door, though. We didn't usually access the front door unless we were requested.
Mr. Auchincloss: So coming into the main hallway, you see a very large staircase there --
Shane Meridith: Correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- is that right? Is that the stairway you went up to go to the bedroom where you woke up these children?
Shane Meridith: Yes, it is.
Mr. Auchincloss: And they were in a room with some sleeping bags?
Shane Meridith: On -- on one occasion, they had the sleeping bags with the children. When I woke up the nephews the first time, they were in the sleeping bags. On the second occasion that I recall, they were already up and, you know, around and about in there.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you see Mr. Jackson at that time?
Shane Meridith: I did not, no.
Mr. Auchincloss: You said that there was an incident where you saw Gavin and Star in the wine cellar?
Shane Meridith: Correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, your routine as a security officer is to go around and check doors and make sure they're locked; is that right?
Shane Meridith: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: How often do you make your rounds in the evening?
Shane Meridith: Like I said, we usually do them 15-, 30-minute rounds.
Mr. Auchincloss: When you make those rounds, is one of your duties to check the wine cellar and make sure it's locked?
Shane Meridith: That's a fair assumption. I think it would be to go downstairs and actually physically check that door.
Mr. Auchincloss: So if that door is left unlocked, would it be reasonable to say that it's not unlocked for very long. Eventually some security guard goes down there and locks it?
Shane Meridith: Correct. That's correct. As long as there's nobody visibly -- you know, house staff that's visibly coming in and out of that.
Mr. Auchincloss: You mentioned that. If there's some activity where people are moving in and out, you'll just let it remain open?
Shane Meridith: Right. We'll just kind of leave it open.
Mr. Auchincloss: When you went down there, Star and Gavin were laughing?
Shane Meridith: Yeah, they were having a good time. They were obviously playing, goofing off.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did they seem intoxicated at all?
Shane Meridith: You know, I didn't even get to talk to them that long. All I did when I came downstairs was, you know, just tell them that they weren't supposed to be in that area and they knew better than that, and they needed to get upstairs immediately.
Mr. Auchincloss: You said there was a half bottle of wine that had been opened?
Shane Meridith: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you remember where that half bottle of wine was in relation to Gavin and Star when you went in the room?
Shane Meridith: They were behind the -- like I said, when you walk into that -- to the wine cellar, there's a kitchen area that's in there. There's a table in that kitchen area. The wine was sitting there, and they were on either side of that bottle, just kind of standing, you know, standing, laughing, goofing off, pushing each other, doing things like that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Any glasses?
Shane Meridith: No, I didn't see any glasses.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you smell any alcohol on their breath?
Shane Meridith: No, I did not. I did not.
Mr. Auchincloss: So you really don't know whether or not they had been drinking that alcohol?
Shane Meridith: No. I can't guarantee that they were actually drinking the alcohol.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was Mr. Jackson on the property at the time?
Shane Meridith: Yes, sir, I believe he was.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Do you know if he'd been spending some time with Gavin and Star?
Shane Meridith: Not that evening, I don't believe so.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would you know that? Were you spending time around Gavin and Star that evening?
Shane Meridith: I would see them. I mean, at that time, they were our only guests, so, you know, I would see -- if they were out and about, then I would -- you know, I would see them.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was their mother there at the time?
Shane Meridith: I believe Janet was there at the time.
Mr. Auchincloss: Are you sure about that or --
Shane Meridith: No, I'm not positive. I'm not positive.
Mr. Auchincloss: As far as these dates go, did you make any notations or notes or anything?
Shane Meridith: Nothing really stood out in my mind as far as -- you know, as far as the circumstances surrounding any of those instances, so I didn't really -- you know, other than making reports if something was damaged, or the instance where they were drinking in the cellar where I told my supervisor. Or where I assumed they were drinking in the cellar.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you make any reports about that?
Shane Meridith: Other than telling my supervisor, that's all I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: When they left the wine cellar, did they appear to have a key with them?
Shane Meridith: No, they did not. Not that I could see.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did it ever come to your attention that they had a key?
Shane Meridith: I have no knowledge whether they had a key or not.
Mr. Auchincloss: Mr. Jackson, of course, has access to that wine cellar; is that true?
Shane Meridith: With -- usually Mr. Jackson would call and ask one of us to unlock that wine cellar if he wanted access to it. It wasn't frequent that I ever saw him go down there, though. I mean, on my shift, you know.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you. No further questions.
Shane Meridith: Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down. Call your next witness.
Mr. Mesereau: Defense will call Mr. Brian Salce.
The Court: Please remain standing. Face the clerk and raise your right hand.
Message: BRIAN SALCE Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Brian Salce: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Brian Salce: My name is Brian Salce. B-r-i-a-n; S-a-l-c-e.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good afternoon, Mr. Salce. Mr. Salce, where are you currently employed?
Brian Salce: Neverland Ranch.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long have you worked at Neverland Ranch?
Brian Salce: On and off for six years in October.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know the fellow seated at counsel table to my right?
Brian Salce: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Who is he?
Brian Salce: Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. He's your employer?
Brian Salce: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. What kind of jobs have you held at Neverland Ranch?
Brian Salce: When I started there, I was in the fire academy. And I was hired as a safety officer doing security work. Then when I completed the fire academy, I was promoted to firefighter, and I did that for most of the time I was there. Became a supervisor, and then just recently was promoted to fire chief.
Mr. Mesereau: And where is the fire academy?
Brian Salce: Allan Hancock.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you attend the fire academy?
Brian Salce: In '99, I believe.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long a course was that?
Brian Salce: That's -- I took the nine-month. I took it at night. There's a daytime and a night. I took the nighttime, Tuesday and Thursday nights, and Saturday days.
Mr. Mesereau: So you are a trained firefighter?
Brian Salce: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you become a trained firefighter, do you get some type of a license?
Brian Salce: Yes, it's -- as far as I know, most of the fire academies are state-certified fire academies. At least that's what I went to at Allan Hancock. When you're done with that, then you hold a state certificate.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, there is a portion of Neverland that's involved in fighting fires if necessary, right?
Brian Salce: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And please describe that.
Brian Salce: That would be the fire department.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Brian Salce: And -- where you have firefighting equipment. We have a fire engine. We train. We do everything we're -- you know, we're -- that you would do as a firefighter.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you -- excuse me. When you were working with the fire department at Neverland, were you the only firefighter?
Brian Salce: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: How many, typically, did you have in the fire department at Neverland?
Brian Salce: We -- over my course of employment, we would run anywhere from seven to fifteen firefighters, possibly more.
Mr. Mesereau: And were most of these firefighters trained the way you were?
Brian Salce: Absolutely. In order to be employed as a firefighter, you have to go through a fire academy, state certified.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, would these individuals typically come to work at Neverland after attending the fire academy?
Brian Salce: Yes. On some occasions, like with myself, they would start there. We had one employee that started there, was working as a safety officer, and then just from interacting with the firefighters realized that that's something he may be interested in, and then he enrolled in the fire academy. And I --
Mr. Mesereau: Now, would there be firefighters at Neverland 24 hours a day?
Brian Salce: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. What would your typical shift be at Neverland as a firefighter?
Brian Salce: Hourly?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, please.
Brian Salce: Since I've been employed with Neverland, we've ran from either 6:00 in the morning to 6:30 p.m., or 6 p.m. until 6:30 in the morning. So you have a half hour of overlapping.
Mr. Mesereau: On each shift, how many firefighters would there be?
Brian Salce: It's varied over the years. We used to always try to have two firefighters, with a minimum of one. But over different times when they've had different levels of employment, sometimes we have not had a firefighter there.
Mr. Mesereau: And during the year of 2003, I'm talking particularly about the first three months of the year, January, February and March, did you typically have firefighters present at Neverland?
Brian Salce: I was not employed during those dates.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know if any firefighters were there during that period of time?
Brian Salce: I would not know that, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When did you last work as a firefighter at Neverland?
Brian Salce: Yesterday.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. You were at Neverland in 2003, were you not?
Brian Salce: I was -- I left Neverland in -- I left in -- I'm drawing a blank -- in 2002 of November, I believe, and came back June of 2003.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember ever meeting a family named Arvizo?
Brian Salce: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you remember about them?
Brian Salce: I -- I -- nothing different than any other guests.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet Janet Arvizo?
Brian Salce: I did on one occasion.
Mr. Mesereau: And describe that occasion, if you would.
Brian Salce: Met her -- it was the day of an event. Met her in the theater. The three children were with her. They introduced her to me, and right away, she knew who I was, said that the kids spoke very highly of me; that they really liked me; that I was very nice to them. Gave me a hug. And asked me if I liked Mexican food and gave me their number and address and told me to write the kids. Said if I'm ever in L.A., I should stop by the house and eat Mexican food is what she said.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever do that?
Brian Salce: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You met her children?
Brian Salce: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And were they Gavin, Star and Davellin, to your knowledge?
Brian Salce: Yes, sir, I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Two boys and a girl?
Brian Salce: I remember Gavin and Star. The girl's name I wasn't always clear on.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever observe the children at Neverland?
Brian Salce: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you see them doing?
Brian Salce: Playing with the golf carts. Just more outdoor stuff. Riding quads, things of that nature.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Michael Jackson with the Arvizo children?
Brian Salce: I saw him interact with them, but not in -- not in great lengths. It was --
Mr. Mesereau: And where do you think you saw Mr. Jackson interact with the Arvizo children?
Brian Salce: I believe I saw him talking to them one day near the main house.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, where is the fire station in relation to the main house?
Brian Salce: Well, what we actually call the fire station used to be up at the administration office. We called it the fire station. It housed the fire engine, but we didn't actually -- we weren't housed there. We were at an office down closer to the main house.
Mr. Mesereau: When you say “closer to the main house”, what do you mean?
Brian Salce: Connected by a breezeway, but not part of the same structure.
Mr. Mesereau: When did the fire station become permanently located up top?
Brian Salce: When I started there. That's what they had always called the fire station.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, if you're at the fire station, do you have a view of Neverland?
Brian Salce: Of --
Mr. Mesereau: What do you see as you look out the windows at the fire station?
Brian Salce: One window you see railroad tracks on a hillside. Excuse me. Another window you see the same. The other window you can see the parking lot for the administration office.
Mr. Mesereau: As a firefighter, do you patrol around Neverland as part of your duties?
Brian Salce: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Please explain what you mean.
Brian Salce: We -- the firefighters are trained as firefighters, but everybody in our safety department acts as a safety officer or a security officer as well, so we trade off with shifts at the gate or driving around and patrolling the property. Just to make sure nothing is out of place or anything of that nature.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, as a security officer, what were your duties at Neverland?
Brian Salce: Primarily it was to come in and get pass-on from the shift prior. We would spend a certain amount of time at the front gate, depending on staffing. Could be anywhere from four to six hours. And then we would spend -- if you spend four there, you would spend four patrolling. You could open buildings, certain buildings, in the morning to start the day, or at the end of the day you could lock buildings up. We would, depending on the hour, check on just animals, the zoo. You know, a lot of it's making sure doors are locked, or unlocked. Just washing the vehicle, washing the fire engine. And then the other thing, we would do house checks. If we were stationed at the house, at that office, we would do a house check every hour or so. And we would walk around the house, check doors, make sure that they're secure or unsecured, depending on what the, you know, directive was.
Mr. Mesereau: And does that happen every shift?
Brian Salce: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you check the guest quarters as well?
Brian Salce: The guest quarters we would check. We would check most of the time. If we didn't have guests, we would make sure the doors are secured. If we had guests, we wouldn't mess with the door that had a guest, so we didn't interrupt them, but the other ones that were supposed to be empty we would check, yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: And what are the locations at Neverland where you saw the Arvizo children?
Brian Salce: I remember one time in particular at the theater, and I remember another time that we had to -- we had to go get them from down by the front gate. They had gone either horseback riding or quad riding, I don't remember exactly which it was, and I believe the little girl needed to go back to her guest unit. I think she was asthmatic and she needed to get her inhaler or something. I think. I'm not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Mr. Jackson act inappropriately with the Arvizo children?
Brian Salce: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the Arvizo children ever complain to you about Mr. Jackson?
Brian Salce: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Mrs. -- Mrs. Arvizo ever complain to you about Michael Jackson?
Brian Salce: No, sir. I met her on that one occasion and she was happy and laughing, and that was my only contact with her.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see her walking around the property?
Brian Salce: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Brian Salce: That was the only day that I know of her being there when I have been employed there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. No further questions.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Good afternoon, Mr. Salce.
Brian Salce: Good afternoon, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: I just want to be clear on the period of time that you were not at Neverland.
Brian Salce: Okay.
Mr. Auchincloss: You mentioned a period of several months when you were not employed there.
Brian Salce: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you mention that for me again, the exact dates?
Brian Salce: I started in October of '99. I left in November, I believe it was end of November of 2002. And then I started again -- I then worked for another company. Came back in, I believe, June of 2003.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Thank you very much. No further questions.
Brian Salce: Thank you, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions.
The Court: Thank you. May step down. Call your next witness.
Mr. Sanger: Yes, Your Honor. The defense will call Commander Russ Birchim.
The Court: Come forward, please. When you get to the witness stand, remain standing. Face the clerk here and raise your right hand.
Message: RUSSELL ROBERT BIRCHIM Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Russel Birchim: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Russel Birchim: Russell Robert Birchim. B, as in boy, i-r-c-h-i-m.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Commander Birchim; is that right?
Russel Birchim: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Commander Birchim, the first thing is you need to lean into that microphone on the right side. It's hard for everybody to get close in this courtroom for some reason. How are you employed?
Russel Birchim: I'm employed by the Santa Barbara County Sheriff's Department.
Mr. Sanger: You're a commander in that department --
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: -- is that correct? Were you employed by the Santa Barbara County Sheriff's Department in 1993 and 1994?
Russel Birchim: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sanger: And in early 1994, what was your position at that time?
Russel Birchim: I was in the CID, the detective bureau, as a detective.
Mr. Sanger: CID stands for Criminal Investigations --
Russel Birchim: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: -- Division?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. In any event, you were a detective, right?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you have occasion to work with Detective Monk?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: You recall, in 1993, do you not, contacting a Kassim Abdool and a Ralph Chacon?
Russel Birchim: No.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Do you recall working on an investigation regarding Mr. Jackson?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall contacting two security guards for the purpose of serving them with a grand jury subpoena?
Russel Birchim: In 1994, yes. Not '93.
Mr. Sanger: Did I say '93?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'm sorry. Okay. In 1994, did you contact Kassim and Ralph Chacon?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: There you go. All right. And where did you first contact them?
Russel Birchim: At their homes in Lompoc, their respective homes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And what was the purpose of contacting them?
Russel Birchim: Serve them with grand jury subpoenas, a sitting grand jury in Los Angeles, California, I think, for May 9th of '94.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did you, by chance, review your report before you came to testify?
Russel Birchim: I reviewed a lot of reports, but yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Well, that's good. So based on your reviewing your report, you've refreshed your recollection as to these events; is that correct?
Russel Birchim: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, did you -- let's start with Kassim Abdool. He was at his house in Lompoc when you made contact?
Russel Birchim: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And both you and Detective Monk went to his house; is that right?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And did you both -- excuse me. Did you both identify yourselves as sheriff's detectives?
Russel Birchim: Yes, we did.
Mr. Sanger: Did you serve him with the subpoena? You accomplished that task?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And at that time, did he give you any information about criminal activity or alleged criminal activity with regard to anyone at Neverland Valley Ranch?
Russel Birchim: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did you leave him, then, with a subpoena and go about your business?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you also contact Ralph Chacon?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And similarly, did you and Detective Monk meet him at his house in Lompoc?
Russel Birchim: Yes, we did.
Mr. Sanger: Did you serve him with a grand jury subpoena for the L.A. County Grand Jury?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And I take it you also identified yourselves as detectives for the Santa Barbara County Sheriff's Department?
Russel Birchim: We did.
Mr. Sanger: Did Ralph Chacon give you any information about any alleged criminal activity at Neverland Ranch?
Russel Birchim: No.
Mr. Sanger: And I take it, after you served them, you went about your business; is that correct?
Russel Birchim: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Actually, before you left either of those people -- well, let's do it one at a time. Before you left Mr. Abdool on that date, did you give him a business card?
Russel Birchim: Yes, we did.
Mr. Sanger: And did you tell him that if he wanted to discuss any observation or knowledge regarding any activity on the ranch, that he could call you?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And did you do the same thing with Mr. Chacon?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And as of the time you left them on that day, they did not give you any information whatsoever about anything pertaining to the investigation; is that correct?
Russel Birchim: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Did we establish that day was 4-29-94?
Russel Birchim: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Now, when was the next time you had any contact with Mr. Abdool?
Russel Birchim: That would have been in -- on May 4th, I believe, of '94.
Mr. Sanger: May 4th, did Mr. Abdool phone and request a meeting?
Russel Birchim: Yes, he did.
Mr. Sanger: Did he -- did he have any restrictions on what kind of a meeting he would have with you?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: What were the restrictions?
Russel Birchim: He wanted to meet Detective Monk and I alone with Ralph Chacon, in a secluded area away from Santa Maria and Santa Barbara.
Mr. Sanger: All right. On the telephone, did he give any information about any alleged information that he might claim to have?
Russel Birchim: I'm not sure if he did on the phone at that point. I don't believe so.
Mr. Sanger: You say you do not believe so?
Russel Birchim: I don't believe so.
Mr. Sanger: And in fact, you set up a meeting at a isolated and relatively private place; is that correct?
Russel Birchim: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And what place did you select?
Russel Birchim: Gaviota rest stop on U.S. 101 halfway between here and Santa Barbara.
Mr. Sanger: Is that something that you have mutually agreed upon between yourselves and the sheriff's department and Mr. Abdool on behalf of Mr. Chacon?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you meet them at the rest stop?
Russel Birchim: Yes, we did.
Mr. Sanger: And what day was that?
Russel Birchim: I believe that was either the same day or the following day. May 4th, 5th.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did you bring that report with you?
Russel Birchim: No, I didn't.
Mr. Sanger: Would it help refresh your recollection to see a copy of that report --
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: -- for the date? May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Commander, having reviewed the report, does that refresh your recollection as to the date that you met with Mr. Abdool and Mr. Chacon at the Gaviota rest stop?
Russel Birchim: Yes. It was May 5th, '94.
Mr. Sanger: And at that time, did -- who did the talking? Mr. Abdool or Mr. Chacon?
Russel Birchim: Mr. Abdool.
Mr. Sanger: Did Mr. Chacon speak with you at all?
Russel Birchim: Very briefly.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did Mr. Abdool tell you that he had any specific information with regard to any criminal activity?
Russel Birchim: No, he didn't.
Mr. Sanger: Did he request a meeting with Deputy District Attorney Tom Sneddon?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'm sorry, with District Attorney Tom Sneddon?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Almost caught me on that one. All right. All right. And did you arrange for a meeting between Mr. Abdool and Mr. Chacon and Mr. Sneddon?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you attend the meeting that eventually occurred?
Russel Birchim: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, when did that meeting occur?
Russel Birchim: May 6th, '94.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And who was present besides Mr. Sneddon?
Russel Birchim: Ralph Chacon, Kassim Abdool and myself. I believe Detective Monk was also there.
Mr. Sanger: All right. At that time, did Mr. Abdool or Mr. Chacon state that they had eyewitness accounts as witnesses of illegal activity?
Russel Birchim: No, they did not.
Mr. Sanger: Did they ask hypothetical questions in the form, “Well, what if we had information?”
Russel Birchim: They did not specify “we”. They asked what if they had information.
Mr. Sanger: Did they ask if they could be placed into a government witness program?
Russel Birchim: Yes, they did.
Mr. Sanger: Did they ask what was involved in being placed in a government witness program?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did they ask if they would receive compensation while in that program?
Russel Birchim: I don't believe it was that general -- it was more general than that. It wasn't that specific as to what they would receive.
Mr. Sanger: Did Mr. Chacon indicate that he owed child support?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: At some point during this conversation, did both Mr. Abdool and Mr. Chacon say that they had information that the tabloids would probably purchase from them?
Russel Birchim: I don't remember the specific words. It was akin to that statement, yes.
Mr. Sanger: And did they tell you that instead, they felt morally obligated to tell the truth in the grand jury proceedings?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And did they tell you that they felt morally obligated not to seek money for what they might know?
Russel Birchim: Possibly. I don't recall.
Mr. Sanger: Would it help to look at your report?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes. I'm referring to right there, but you can read whatever you want. Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: Does that refresh your recollection?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did they say that they felt morally obligated not to seek money for what they knew?
Russel Birchim: Yes, they did.
Mr. Sanger: At the conclusion of the meeting, they still had not told either you, Detective Monk, or District Attorney Tom Sneddon what they knew; is that right?
Russel Birchim: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: I have no further questions.
The Bailiff: Judge, it is the break time.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Commander, I've been waiting 30 years to do this.
Mr. Sanger: Move to strike that remark. I'm not sure I know what it meant, but I would move to strike it.
Mr. Sneddon: To cross-examine him. That's what I meant. I'm sorry.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: The first time you contacted Mr. Kassim Abdool was on the 29th of April of 1994 to serve a subpoena for the grand jury, correct?
Russel Birchim: Yes, that's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you served that subpoena on Mr. Abdool, he did indicate to you at that time that he was afraid to appear before the grand jury, did he not?
Russel Birchim: Yes, he did.
Mr. Sneddon: And he stated to you, in fact, that he was afraid to appear before the grand jury because it might jeopardize his job; isn't that correct?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And that he was in fear if he had to tell the truth; isn't that correct?
Russel Birchim: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you got to Mr. Chacon's house, you served a warrant -- “a warrant”. You served a subpoena on Mr. Chacon, correct?
Russel Birchim: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you served the subpoena on Mr. Chacon, he also indicated to you that he felt that if he honored that subpoena that it could jeopardize his job at the ranch?
Russel Birchim: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And he also told you that if he had to tell the truth as to what he knew before the grand jury, that he was in fear for his family and his life?
Russel Birchim: That's correct.
The Court: Counsel? Break time.
Mr. Sneddon: I was just getting going, Judge.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Commander Birchim, when you went out to serve Mr. Abdool and Mr. Chacon on the 29th of April of 1994, was it your purpose or intention to do an interview of them at that time?
Russel Birchim: No, it wasn't.
Mr. Sneddon: And you did not do an interview of them at that time, correct?
Russel Birchim: No, we didn't.
Mr. Sneddon: And you knew that they were going to be, pursuant to the subpoena, required to attend the Santa Barbara or Los Angeles County grand juries, correct?
Russel Birchim: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Compound and calls for speculation.
Mr. Sneddon: I'll divide it up, Judge. No problem.
Mr. Sneddon: The subpoena that you served Mr. Abdool with required him to appear in Los Angeles in front of the Los Angeles County Grand Jury on the 9th of May of '94, 1994, correct?
Russel Birchim: Yes, correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And the subpoena that you served to Mr. Chacon also required him to be there on that particular day in Los Angeles before the Los Angeles County Grand Jury?
Russel Birchim: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And that was in connection with allegations that had been made by a young child by the name of Jordan Chandler; is that correct?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Calls for hearsay; beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you aware of the nature of the proceedings that were then underway in Los Angeles that required Mr. Chacon and Mr. Abdool to be subpoenaed?
Russel Birchim: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sneddon: Was that the matter of which you were investigating?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you had been assigned at that particular point as one of the lead investigators; correct?
Russel Birchim: That's correct, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Would that be true also if I asked you the same question with regard to Mr. Chacon's appearance before the Los Angeles County Grand Jury?
Russel Birchim: That would be also true, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did the subject matter have to do with allegations against Mr. Jackson for child molestation?
Russel Birchim: Yes, they did.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, the next time that you met with Mr. Abdool and Mr. Chacon was on May the 5th, correct?
Russel Birchim: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And that was at the Goleta area -- Goleta beach area?
Russel Birchim: No, it was at Gaviota rest stop.
Mr. Sneddon: Gaviota. And that meeting had been set up the day before, correct?
Russel Birchim: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, it was in an area I think you described as a secluded area up there; is that correct?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And the reason that you chose that particular area as being secluded is because they indicated to you that they were afraid; isn't that right?
Russel Birchim: That's right.
Mr. Sneddon: And that they were afraid that they may be followed or that somebody from Mr. Jackson's representatives would see them meeting with law enforcement authorities, correct?
Russel Birchim: That is correct, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: And at that meeting on the 5th, when you met with those -- with Mr. Kassim and Mr. -- I'm sorry, with Mr. Abdool and Mr. Chacon, they indicated to you that they had actually had a meeting on the 3rd of May with representatives of Mr. Jackson's attorney team, correct?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Calls for hearsay; beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Overruled.
Russel Birchim: That's correct, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And they indicated to you at that time that they had been offered the services of a free lawyer to appear before the Santa Barbara County -- the Los Angeles County Grand Jury, correct?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Calls for hearsay; beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Hearsay objection is sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I indicated it was a prior consistent statement involved here in the whole conversation. There's been -- I don't want to say anything more, but there's --
The Court: When you say prior consistent statements have been offered, do you mean within this witness's testimony?
Mr. Sneddon: No, statements made by the other two individuals who, I believe, under 791, when there's been a --
The Court: What is this -- your witness. Isn't that true, though, that would be outside the scope of the direct testimony?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I think it bears on the sequence of the total testimony that Mr. Sanger elicited. He elicited the sequence of events, but I don't want to argue with the Court. I don't want to say anything to get myself in trouble, but there's more that happened in between that explains some of the conduct. That's all I'm suggesting to the Court. And in fairness -- let me withdraw that question, Your Honor, and ask another question.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: See if I can get there another way without --
The Court: All right. Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. Because this one goes directly to....
Mr. Sneddon: During that conversation that Mr. Sanger asked you about when you met with him on the 5th, do you recall that?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you recall Mr. Sanger asked you whether or not they disclosed any details to you on that particular occasion?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did they, in fact, tell you on that particular occasion that they had been asked to have representatives of Mr. Jackson present at the grand jury hearing and that they declined those services and told them they were simply going to tell the truth and they didn't need a lawyer for that?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. That is grossly compound, a speech by the District Attorney. It should be stricken. And it also calls for hearsay and it's beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: The objection is overruled. You may answer.
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did they tell you whether or not, after that conversation with Mr. Jackson's lawyers on May 3rd, whether or not they'd ever been contacted by an investigator representing Mr. Jackson?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did they give you --
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Calls for hearsay and it's beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Overruled. The answer was, “Yes”. Next question.
Mr. Sneddon: When did they tell you that they received a contact from -- well, first let me get to the name. Who was -- they identified the person as Mr. Mason, did they not?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Calls for hearsay', beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Overruled.
Russel Birchim: Yes, Eric Mason.
Mr. Sneddon: And when did they tell you that contact occurred?
Russel Birchim: I believe it was at Gaviota. It may have been at the meeting in your office. I don't recall when.
Mr. Sneddon: And that the meeting had occurred prior to the time that they had contacted you, correct?
Russel Birchim: That's right.
Mr. Sneddon: And at the meeting that Mr. Sanger asked you about at Gaviota on May 5th, 1994, both Mr. Abdool and Chacon indicated to you that they could be in danger from Mr. Jackson's people if they told what they knew, correct?
Russel Birchim: Yes, that's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And they were worried about that?
Mr. Sanger: Objection; calls for speculation.
Mr. Sneddon: I'll rephrase it.
Mr. Sneddon: And they told you they were worried about that, did they not?
Russel Birchim: Yes, they did.
Mr. Sneddon: And the reason that they didn't want to say anything to you at that point in time is because they wanted to meet with the District Attorney's Office to discuss the fact of getting protection before they went into the details of what they knew; isn't that correct?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Calls for speculation. It's also compound.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Russel Birchim: Yes, that's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And in the same meeting at Gaviota, when you were talking to Mr. Chacon and to Mr. Abdool, they told you that -- they indicated to the attorneys representing Mr. Jackson in that meeting that they intended to tell the truth in front of the grand jury, correct?
Russel Birchim: Yes, that's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And they told you that, in the call from Mr. Mason, that they indicated to Mr. Mason that they were going to tell the truth when they testified before the grand jury?
Russel Birchim: Yes, that's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, moving to the conversation on the 6th of May that occurred in the District Attorney's Office, both Mr. Abdool and Mr. Chacon expressed grave concerns about protection, correct?
Mr. Sanger: Objection, Your Honor, particularly the adjective. Calls for speculation and it's vague.
Mr. Sneddon: I'll withdraw that and just leave the word. It doesn't make any difference. I'm sorry.
Mr. Sneddon: During the meeting on the 6th, at the District Attorney's Office, did Mr. Chacon express to you concerns about the safety of him and his family?
Russel Birchim: Yes, he did.
Mr. Sneddon: Did Mr. Abdool express to you concerns about his safety and that of his family during that conversation?
Russel Birchim: Yes, he also did.
Mr. Sneddon: And did they actually ask for somebody connected with our offices, the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department and the District Attorney's Office, to explore the possibility of a federal protection witness program if they went before the grand jury and told the truth?
Russel Birchim: Yes, they did.
Mr. Sneddon: And were they told at that particular point in time that there were no assurances that that kind of protection could be given even if they testified?
Russel Birchim: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Did they indicate -- did Mr. Chacon indicate to you at that time that he was -- that in speaking to law enforcement, he believed that he was placing himself at great risk?
Mr. Sanger: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you indicated to Mr. Sanger that in discussing the conversation that occurred on May 6th of 1994, that Mr. Abdool and Mr. Chacon -- let me take them separately. That Mr. Abdool was doing most of the talking; is that correct? Do I have the conversations mixed up?
Russel Birchim: On the 5th at Gaviota?
Mr. Sneddon: Yes.
Russel Birchim: Yeah, he was doing most of the talking.
Mr. Sneddon: How about at the 6th at the meeting?
Russel Birchim: They spoke at that.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. During that conversation on the 6th where you were present and representatives of the D.A.'s were present - office - did they relate to you -- or they did relate to you, did they not, that they had information about Michael Jackson fondling, passionately kissing on the mouth and sucking the penis of small boys?
Mr. Sanger: Objection, Your Honor. First of all, that misstates the evidence, unless counsel's got another report he hasn't turned over.
Mr. Sneddon: It's right here.
Mr. Sanger: No, it's not right there. I know what it says.
The Court: The objection is overruled. You may answer.
Russel Birchim: They indicated they may have that evidence, yes, they did.
Mr. Sneddon: I couldn't hear you.
Russel Birchim: They did indicate that they had that knowledge or had knowledge about who might have that knowledge, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And it was related in a hypothetical, correct?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: But the words they used was that they said Michael Jackson fondling, correct?
Mr. Sanger: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: And also misstates.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, when -- to your knowledge, did Mr. Abdool appear before the Los Angeles County Grand Jury on the day that he was supposed to?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Objection; beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you present during a conversation where Mr. Chacon was called in and appeared before -- his statement was taken under oath?
Mr. Sanger: Objection; beyond the scope of direct.
Mr. Sneddon: I believe these qualify under 791.
The Court: I think the question is vague. I can't tell exactly what you're referring to.
Mr. Sneddon: I'll clarify it.
Mr. Sneddon: On May the 10th of 1994, Mr. Chacon appeared before an individual -- or appeared in a hearing and was placed under oath. Were you present then?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. First of all, that's a statement, not a question. And it's compound, assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: And it's beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Were you present on May 10th when Mr. Chacon was brought in and his statement was taken under oath?
Mr. Sanger: Beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Is that the basis, Your Honor? I don't want to quibble with the Court. If it is, I'll just move on.
The Court: It is, I think, beyond the scope.
Mr. Sneddon: Commander Birchim, were you, in fact, later assigned to investigate death threats that were received by both Mr. Abdool and Mr. Chacon?
Mr. Sanger: Objection, Your Honor, beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: To your knowledge, were official reports filed with law enforcement agencies concerning death threats against Mr. Chacon and Mr. Abdool?
Mr. Sanger: Objection, Your Honor. Counsel is just testifying. I ask he be admonished. It's beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Objection sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Nothing further, Your Honor.
Mr. Sanger: Excuse me just one second.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, the fact is that Mr. Abdool and Mr. Chacon said to you they might have to go to the tabloid, or the tabloids were interested in purchasing stories from them; is that right?
Russel Birchim: They said they had information that would be valuable to the tabloids.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And they said they weren't going to do that, right?
Russel Birchim: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you're aware that they, in fact, did that; isn't that right?
Russel Birchim: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Object as argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. The answer is in. “That's correct”, he said.
Mr. Sanger: Do you know whether or not these two people joined with others and filed a lawsuit against Mr. Jackson for money?
Russel Birchim: Yes, they did.
Mr. Sanger: And by the end of the conversations that you had at the rest stop and the meeting with Mr. Sneddon, neither one of these people reported to you what they claimed to know; is that correct?
Mr. Sneddon: Object as argumentative, Your Honor. And leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Russel Birchim: They indicated hypothetically what information they may have.
Mr. Sanger: They didn't say they had it. They said they might know that somebody might have that.
Russel Birchim: Information that would come from them.
Mr. Sanger: And they asked you if that would be valuable to you, didn't they?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I have no further questions.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: With regard to the lawsuit that Mr. Sanger was talking to that Mr. Kassim or Mr. Abdool and Mr. Chacon were involved in against the defendant in this case, to your knowledge, did that lawsuit occur after they had made the statement to you that they felt morally obligated to reveal this information to a grand jury?
Russel Birchim: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did it occur before they were threatened?
Mr. Sanger: Objection, Your Honor, calls for speculation.
Mr. Sneddon: I can lay the foundation, but -- seems to me he opened it up.
The Court: The objection is sustained on the question.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. No further questions.
Message: FURTHER REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: All right. Was there -- did at any time, during these meetings, Mr. Abdool and Mr. Chacon mention that James Van Norman was threatening them?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as beyond the scope of re -- whatever it was I did, cross.
The Court: Overruled. Go ahead.
Russel Birchim: Specifically Jimmy Van Norman, I believe they did, yes.
Mr. Sanger: And did you believe at the time that they were trying to use law enforcement for the purpose of helping them win a civil case?
Russel Birchim: No, I did not.
Mr. Sanger: I have no further questions.
Mr. Sneddon: Nothing further.
The Court: You may step down.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, we'll -- I take it you intend to go to 2:30?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I just knew there was something pending, so I just wanted to know. In any event, we'll call Mr. Vivanco. And what we propose to do is start with testimony that doesn't have to do with the areas that were under --
The Court: That's good. That would work.
Mr. Sanger: I may run out. We'll see how long it takes.
The Court: You may run out.
Mr. Sanger: I don't want to just prolong it unnecessarily to get to 2:30, but I do have some question areas and we'll go through those, if that's all right.
The Court: Okay. That works. When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing. Face the clerk here and raise your right hand.
Message: ANGEL VIVANCO Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Angel Vivanco: Angel Vivanco.
Bailiff Cortez: Take a seat and speak in here.
Angel Vivanco: Oh. Angel Vivanco. A-n-g-e-l; V-i-v-a-n-c-o.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Mr. Vivanco, you know the gentleman seated right there?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And is that Mr. Jackson?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And how do you know him?
Angel Vivanco: I worked for him for three years.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Do you still work for him?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: Where do you work now?
Angel Vivanco: At Radco Company.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. When you worked for Mr. Jackson for that three-year period, what were your job duties?
Angel Vivanco: I was a chef assistant.
Mr. Sanger: And what was the time period that you worked for him? You started right around when?
Angel Vivanco: '99 through 2003, I think.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. About when in 2003 did you cease working for -- or whenever you stopped. Do you remember when it was? Was it 2003?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. When in 2003 was it that you stopped working for Mr. Jackson?
Angel Vivanco: I don't remember what month it was. But it was -- I think it was six months ago. Or seven months ago.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So if it was six or seven months ago -- if this is 2005, what year would that be? It's okay.
Angel Vivanco: Sorry.
Mr. Sanger: Take your time.
Angel Vivanco: I don't remember the month, actually. I don't remember the month.
Mr. Sanger: But it was 2005. Was it in 2004 that you stopped working?
Angel Vivanco: 2003.
Mr. Sanger: 2003. Okay. And you think it was six or seven months ago from today?
Angel Vivanco: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. All right. Now, let's clear something up while we're at it here. Where do you live?
Angel Vivanco: Santa Maria.
Mr. Sanger: And where did you live in February of 2003?
Angel Vivanco: Guadalupe.
Mr. Sanger: Guadalupe. Your Honor, with the Court's permission, I'd like to put up on the board Exhibit 451, and I'm going to go to Tab 5 and the page. I think the way we identified it is this was a phone bill, March 26th, of David Ventura, and it's 8-1 of 9, 8-2 of 9, and 5-4 of 5. And those pages are -- there's one page in between them, but that's what they are.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Zonen: These are exhibits already in evidence.
Mr. Sanger: Who's doing this?
Mr. Zonen: I am.
Mr. Sanger: Do you know which one this is?
Mr. Zonen: Yes. Go ahead.
Mr. Sanger: May I? Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to put up -- let's see if I can do it this way: I have to hold the book, so I'm going to try to hold it steady. Try to hold it steady and project my voice from here. I want you to look up at the board. And after you get through looking at the board, you can turn back around and talk into the microphone. But do you see the two lines there that say, “Guadalupe, California”?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then you see next to it, it says “(805)”, right? Do you see that right next to it?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And it says, “343-5002”. Do you see that?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recognize that phone number?
Angel Vivanco: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sanger: Is that your phone number?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Is it still your phone number?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: Why not?
Angel Vivanco: I don't live in Guadalupe anymore.
Mr. Sanger: So you moved?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. In February of 2003, was that your phone number?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'll just put that one page up, so I won't need the screen anymore at the moment. All right. Let me ask you, when you were working for Mr. Jackson, I think you said, what, starting in 1999?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: At some point, did you have occasion to meet the Arvizo family?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Can you remember the first time you met the Arvizo family?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I'm not asking you for a date, but do you remember first meeting them in general, first seeing them?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Do you remember who was with them the first time you saw them?
Angel Vivanco: I saw them with their mother.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And do you remember the mother's name?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: What's her name?
Angel Vivanco: Janet.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And who -- when you say “them”, who is the “them”? Who did you see with Janet?
Angel Vivanco: Her children. Star, Gavin and Davellin.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And can you tell us what they were doing at the ranch when you first saw them there?
Angel Vivanco: They were visiting the ranch.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, do you recall if this is a time when -- or do you recall roughly when this was?
Angel Vivanco: No, I don't.
Mr. Sanger: Was it closer to the beginning of your employment or the end of your employment?
Angel Vivanco: The beginning.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did you see them there with their father at any time?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Bailiff Cortez: I'm sorry, could you speak a little louder?
Mr. Sanger: It's not just you. Everybody has trouble with that microphone. You really have to lean into it - okay? - and then speak up. All right. Now, at some point, do you recall seeing the Arvizos, at least the children, at the ranch when Mr. Jackson was not there?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall who it was that had invited them to the ranch?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as speculative. Lack of foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall who it was that they were with visiting the ranch?
Angel Vivanco: They were with their mother.
Mr. Sanger: Was there anybody else that was there?
Angel Vivanco: The brother and sisters, Star and --
Mr. Sanger: Is that the first time you saw them?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Let's fast-forward a little bit and go on in time. Was there some point when they were there for a birthday party?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And whose birthday party was that; do you recall?
Angel Vivanco: I don't remember the occasion.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Do you remember a movie star of some sort being there with them?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Okay. You recall a birthday party of some sort, though; is that right?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: You don't know whose birthday party it was?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did you have occasion to have interaction with Star Arvizo during that period of time?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And do you remember anything unusual?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as vague as to what period of time.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. During the period of time when they were visiting during this birthday party -- you recall it was a birthday party, right?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And they're there visiting?
Mr. Zonen: Object as vague as to what period of time.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Sanger: Did we not get an answer to the last question?
The Court: The last question was, “And they were there visiting?” And I think you might have been interrupted.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Let me restate that, then.
Mr. Sanger: When they were visiting during this birthday party, was Mr. Jackson there at the ranch?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, that period of time - I'm talking about this birthday party period of time when they're visiting, and Mr. Jackson's not there - do you recall having any interaction with Star Arvizo?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. What was your job during that period of time? Where did you work?
Angel Vivanco: I was a chef assistant.
Mr. Sanger: Chef assistant?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: So where did you do that job?
Angel Vivanco: What did I do?
Mr. Sanger: Where did you do it? Where were you? Where did you stand?
Angel Vivanco: I was at the theater.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Angel Vivanco: And I would serve food for them.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Where did you get the food to serve?
Angel Vivanco: From the kitchen at the main house.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Take a deep breath or two here. I know it's hard sometimes. Where were you working? In other words, when you showed up, where was the main place that you'd be working during the day?
Angel Vivanco: At the main house.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And where in the main house?
Angel Vivanco: In the kitchen.
Mr. Sanger: There you go. And the kitchen has like a counter; is that right?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And people sit there?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, you said something about the theater. What was that about?
Angel Vivanco: Oh, well, I would sometimes take food to the theater when they needed -- when they asked for it.
Mr. Sanger: So you would get a call. Somebody would call and ask you to bring food to the Arvizo kids at the theater?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All of the kids? Gavin, Star and Davellin?
Angel Vivanco: Not all together. Just sometimes one at a time, or sometimes together, you know.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Do you recall any of the kids asking you to prepare something with alcohol in it?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: What was that? Tell us about that incident.
Angel Vivanco: It was a milkshake.
Mr. Zonen: Vague as to time.
The Court: I'll sustain the objection, but I'm assuming that this is all around the date of the birthday, right?
Mr. Sanger: That's my understanding. Let's just ask to be sure.
Mr. Sanger: Was that the same trip as the birthday?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: It was a different trip?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Was Mr. Jackson there at the premises when this occurred?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Zonen: Objection; lack of foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sanger: The answer came in I think?
The Court: It's in. It was “No”.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, on that occasion, what was the incident? What happened? You were asked to prepare a drink with alcohol?
The Court: Just a minute. Michele, do you need a little break here?
The Reporter: I think I'm fine now. Thanks.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Tell us about that occasion when one of the boys asked you to prepare an alcohol drink.
Angel Vivanco: He was at the bar, in the kitchen.
Mr. Sanger: Do you remember which one it was? Star or Gavin?
Angel Vivanco: It was Star.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And what did Star say to you?
Angel Vivanco: He asked me to make him a milkshake.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Angel Vivanco: And just -- I made it for him, and he pointed at the cabinets full of liquor, and he pointed out one of the bottles and asked me to pour some in the milkshake.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. What was in the bottle?
Angel Vivanco: Liquor.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Do you remember which kind?
Angel Vivanco: It was a Mexican kind. It was called Jimador.
Mr. Sanger: He was asking you to put that in the milkshake?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did you do that?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: You put the alcohol in the milkshake?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Before you put it in the milkshake, did Star say anything to you?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: What did he say?
Angel Vivanco: He told me if I didn't do it, he would tell Michael, and I would get fired.
Mr. Sanger: So then you put the -- you put the alcohol in the milkshake?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall Gavin ever having any particular incident with you?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Can you tell us about that?
Angel Vivanco: Be more specific.
Mr. Sanger: Was there a time that Gavin asked you for some -- for some Cheetos?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as irrelevant.
Angel Vivanco: No.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall him asking for some food of some sort?
Angel Vivanco: I don't remember.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Do you remember if Gavin ever swore at you?
Angel Vivanco: Oh, yes.
Mr. Sanger: What did he do?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as irrelevant.
Angel Vivanco: He just swore at me.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as irrelevant.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Angel Vivanco: He just swore at me and -- asking for some Cheetos or saying --
Mr. Sanger: You can say it. Tell us what he said.
Angel Vivanco: “Give me the fucking Cheetos”. That's what he said.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, was there an incident that occurred with Star in the kitchen involving a knife?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And can you tell us about that?
Angel Vivanco: I was serving some guests on the bar some food, and he was helping us that day to cook.
Mr. Sanger: Star was in there helping you in the kitchen area?
Angel Vivanco: Yes, he asked to help. So we let him. I was serving a plate to one of the guests, and he had a knife like two -- one inch on my neck.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. What kind of a knife was it?
Angel Vivanco: It was a kitchen knife.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall about how big it was?
Angel Vivanco: It was nine inches. Or -- a foot long. It was a foot.
Mr. Sanger: A foot?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: What was the knife for? What kind of a knife was it?
Angel Vivanco: It was to cut meat.
Mr. Sanger: Did you keep that pretty sharp in your kitchen?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you said he had it about an inch from your neck. What was he doing with it when he put it an inch from your neck?
Angel Vivanco: He just had it holding up onto my neck. And I didn't realize it until one of the guests yelled at Star, saying, “What are you doing?”
Mr. Sanger: Who was the guest; do you recall?
Angel Vivanco: It was Vinnie.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And do you recall what Vinnie said?
Angel Vivanco: He said, “If” --
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as hearsay.
The Court: Overruled.
Angel Vivanco: He said, “If that was my mother seeing me doing that, I would get a beating”.
Mr. Sanger: All right. He was saying that -- he was directing those remarks to Star?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, were you -- how did you react to that? How did you feel about that?
Angel Vivanco: I didn't really think nothing of it.
Mr. Sanger: Were you scared?
Angel Vivanco: Sort of, yeah. Mostly -- well, it made me nervous.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. All right. Do you recall a time when Star showed you some magazines?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Was this a time when Mr. Jackson was on the property?
Angel Vivanco: No. He was not on the property.
Mr. Sanger: Was this near the time of the birthday party or near the time -- the beginning of your employment, or towards the end?
Angel Vivanco: Towards the end.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, do you remember -- there was the Bashir documentary. Do you remember that?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you remember -- that came out on television at some point, right?
Angel Vivanco: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: Do you remember if this family came to the ranch after the Bashir documentary?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Before the -- before the Bashir documentary, do you remember the family being there? When I say “family”, I mean the kids.
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. When Star showed you the magazine, and Mr. Jackson wasn't there, was that before the Bashir documentary or after it?
Angel Vivanco: It was after.
Mr. Sanger: It was after the Bashir documentary?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So do you then recall them being at the ranch after the Bashir documentary?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. All right. Now, you said you served food or you were responsible for being an assistant cook. Do you know whether or not Star and Gavin would take food to the guest unit?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And did they do that?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, after the Bashir documentary, do you remember seeing Janet Arvizo at the ranch?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you know somebody by the name of Dieter Weizner?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Was Dieter Weizner at the ranch in that same period of time?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, how long was the family at the ranch after the Bashir documentary, before they left for the last time?
Angel Vivanco: Probably about two -- two to three weeks maybe.
Mr. Sanger: And during that period of time, did you see Janet Arvizo come out to the kitchen area or come into the kitchen area where you were working?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. When I say “kitchen area”, I don't mean going in the actual kitchen, but in the kitchen area, you have a counter, right?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you ever see Janet Arvizo come to that counter?
Angel Vivanco: After the Martin Bashir --
Mr. Sanger: Yes.
Angel Vivanco: No. After that, no.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Did you see the Martin Bashir video when it came out?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So your recollection is you saw her there before the Martin Bashir video?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you see her there with Dieter?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, let me ask you what you recall about her being there with Dieter. Okay. I want you to get a mental picture of what was going on. As best you can, try to remember what happened. You see Janet Arvizo coming into the area. What do you call that area where the counter is?
Angel Vivanco: The bar.
Mr. Sanger: The bar. Okay. You see her coming into the bar. And were you there when she arrived the first time, or do you recall?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Where was Dieter?
Angel Vivanco: He was sitting at the bar.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And were they sitting next to each other to begin with?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: What do you recall happened after that?
Angel Vivanco: They started talking.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Angel Vivanco: And they got -- they asked for a bottle of champagne.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, did -- was Dieter talking to Janet, or Janet to Dieter, or were they both talking to each other?
Angel Vivanco: Well, I don't know who started the conversation. But it seemed Janet started talking to Dieter.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Did they remain at their places at the bar?
Angel Vivanco: No, they got closer together.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. How long did they sit at the bar together that first time?
Angel Vivanco: For a couple hours.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Do you recall Janet Arvizo's demeanor, how she was acting?
Angel Vivanco: Flirtatious.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. After they sat at the bar for that period of time, did they go anyplace else?
Angel Vivanco: They went to the living room.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And where is the living room?
Angel Vivanco: Couple steps to the right.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. There's like a formal living room and then there's a family room area; is that correct?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did they go to the family room or the living room?
Angel Vivanco: The family room.
Mr. Sanger: And are there couches there in the --
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Where did they sit?
Angel Vivanco: They sat next to each other in front of the T.V.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And what were they doing?
Angel Vivanco: They kept on talking.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Were they drinking anything?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: What were they drinking?
Angel Vivanco: The champagne they ordered.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Do you recall how long they sat there in the family room area?
Angel Vivanco: A couple more hours.
Mr. Sanger: And then during that period of time what was Janet Arvizo's attitude?
Angel Vivanco: Flirtatious.
Mr. Sanger: So just continued on the entire time?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And did they seem to be having a good time?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did they eventually leave?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And did they leave together or separately that first time?
Angel Vivanco: The first time, together.
Mr. Sanger: And do you recall them saying anything on the way out?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Do you know where they went?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So they went out the door together?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Did you see them again that night?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: Now, did you see them again the next day?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And what happened that day?
Angel Vivanco: The same thing. They ordered champagne again, and they were talking together --
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Angel Vivanco: -- after dinner.
Mr. Sanger: And when they -- when they left the area, was -- how did Janet seem? What was her attitude?
Angel Vivanco: Different. It was more, like, serious.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Angel Vivanco: They just talked. They didn't really flirt as much as they did the other day.
Mr. Sanger: Did she seem to be happy or unhappy?
Angel Vivanco: More --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as speculative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Were you able to determine by observing her whether or not she seemed to be happy or unhappy?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; speculative.
Mr. Sanger: That would be a “yes” or “no”.
The Court: I'll overrule the objection.
Mr. Sanger: Were you able to determine, by looking at her, whether she seemed to be happy or unhappy?
Angel Vivanco: She seemed more serious.
Mr. Zonen: Object to anything beyond “yes” or “no”.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Did you see whether or not Dieter Weizner and Janet Arvizo had any physical contact?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: Did either one hug the other?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: All right. That was the second night. Now, was there another night?
Angel Vivanco: I don't remember if there was a third night.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. All right. Now, during this period of time, did you have occasion to talk with Davellin?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And what was your first contact with Davellin Arvizo, social contact, as it were? What were the circumstances, in other words?
Angel Vivanco: Well, if she asked for something, like a hamburger or something, I would make it for her. That's the only way I could talk to her.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And you'd make something for her. Would she come and get it or would she ask you to deliver it?
Angel Vivanco: Well, at first she would sit at the bar and I would serve it to her.
Mr. Sanger: At some point did she have you deliver food to her?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And where would you deliver it?
Angel Vivanco: To the theater.
Mr. Sanger: Was she at the theater alone?
Angel Vivanco: No.
Mr. Sanger: Who was with her?
Angel Vivanco: Well, actually she asked me to take her to the theater with the food.
Mr. Sanger: Oh, with the food. Okay.
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, was she at the theater more than once?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Was she at the theater with anybody from time to time?
Angel Vivanco: I don't remember. Maybe her brothers were there with her.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Did she -- after you drove her to the theater that one time, did she ask you to come back and bring her food there on other occasions?
Angel Vivanco: No, not there.
Mr. Sanger: Other places?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. What was your shift? When did you usually work?
Angel Vivanco: Seven o'clock in the morning till maybe 10:00 at night.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So you'd be there in case guests or anybody or Mr. Jackson needed food; is that right?
Angel Vivanco: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, I know it's not quite 2:30, and I could probably drag some questions out, but I really think we're at a point we need to address the other issues, Your Honor, if we could.
The Court: All right. You're asking to recess early so you can --
Mr. Sanger: So we can address that, yes, sir.
The Court: Okay. We'll recess early today. I'll see you tomorrow at 8:30. You're going to have that for me in the morning, are you?
Mr. Sanger: Yes. I could have it this afternoon maybe, if that's of any help.
The Court: The earlier the better.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:20 p.m.
