Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Monday, May 23, 2005 8:30 a.m.
The Court: Good morning, everyone.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor.
The Court: Call your next witness, please.
Mr. Sanger: We would call Maria Gomez back to the stand, please.
The Court: All right. Come forward to the witness stand. You're still under oath, so when you get to the witness stand, you may be seated.
Mr. Sanger: May I proceed, Your Honor?
The Court: You may.
Message: MARIA GOMEZ Having been previously sworn, resumed the stand and testified further as follows:
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Miss Gomez, we've called you back to the stand to ask you more questions. First of all, did you participate in a test of the bells at Neverland outside Mr. Jackson's private suite?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And first of all, remind us how long you've worked out there at Neverland.
Maria Gomez: I have worked there nearly 11 years.
Mr. Sanger: And when was the first time you went down that hallway and heard the bells go off?
Maria Gomez: When the first time was?
Mr. Sanger: Sure. About how many months or years ago was that when you first heard those bells go off?
Maria Gomez: Oh, many years ago.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And it would have been before February of 2003; is that correct?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And has the -- excuse me one second. At the time you did this alarm test, or this -- let me withdraw that, I'm sorry. At the time you did this test with Mr. Nimmer where you walked in and out, do you remember that?
Maria Gomez: Yes, that was about, I don't know exactly, but just a few days ago.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Sometime this year, correct?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: When you heard the bells at that time, is that what the bells have always sounded like over the last few years?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, I'd like to have permission to play the -- Exhibit 5096. It's the short one, if that's all right.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sanger: I can't find the remote control. Do you see it? Oh, here it is. Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: Miss Gomez, we're going to play 5096 and I'm just going to ask you to watch it and see if you recognize yourself in there and recognize what was going on, and then I'm going to ask you some questions about it after it's over, okay?
Maria Gomez: Fine. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, Defendant's Exhibit 5096, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Sanger: With the Court's permission, I'm going to stop it after the first test to ask some questions.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Miss Gomez, you recognize yourself in that film?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And you remember Mr. Nimmer, the man who was shooting this?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: What were you asked to do in that particular test?
Maria Gomez: I was supposed to walk outside to a -- like a hallway that's right in front of the house, and that I should walk all the way in to the room, passing by the doors. I had to punch in the code and then I could open the door.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So when you -- when you went out, you went all the way down the hallway to the end of the hallway that's near the front door; is that right?
Maria Gomez: Yes. Outside of the house, yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So did you actually go out of the hallway into the front door area?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, do you know anything about the technology of how this alarm system is set up?
Maria Gomez: No. No, I don't know anything about that.
Mr. Sanger: Is there some point when you're walking down the hall that it makes the bell ring?
Maria Gomez: Yes, when you reach about halfway down the hallway, it begins to ring.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And then it continues to ring for a number of rings; is that right?
Maria Gomez: It will stop for a few moments and then when you arrive at the door, I don't know if it's stepping into the lift or -- it begins again.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, the sound that you heard on that tape, is that the sound of the alarm that you have heard for the last few years?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Are there any changes to it that you know of?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I'm going to resume playing this, if it's all right, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, Defendant's Exhibit 5096, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Sanger: Let me just pause it right there.
Mr. Sanger: There's a door down at the bottom of the stairway there.
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And the door appears to be open right now; is that correct?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Did you do a test where you left that door open?
Maria Gomez: Once.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And then the second time you closed the door; is that right?
Maria Gomez: When I went out, I closed it.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And I'm going to resume playing. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, Defendant's Exhibit 5096, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I'm going to pause it right there on the blank screen. And for that test, you went down the stairs, correct?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: You went out the door, we could see, at the bottom of the stairs?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then you went out the main door to Mr. Jackson's suite?
Maria Gomez: Yes, it's all in the same process. I went all the way out.
Mr. Sanger: So then you went all the way down the hall, out the end of the hall, turned around and walked back; is that right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And you could hear the bell in that tape, correct?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And that's the same bell that you've heard for years; is that right?
Maria Gomez: It's the same -- it's the same bell.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Okay. And then we'll resume, if we may. (Whereupon, a portion of a DVD, Defendant's Exhibit 5096, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Sanger: All right. Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: On that last test, you did the very same thing that you did the time before except you closed the door at the bottom; is that right?
Maria Gomez: Yes, that's the only different thing.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And let me ask you, did you do this a whole bunch of times or did you just do it these three times?
Maria Gomez: I did it, not very many times, but....
Mr. Sanger: So when -- I'm talking about when they filmed it. Did Mr. Nimmer film it more than three times or he just had you do the three tests and he filmed what you did?
Maria Gomez: He filmed it -- well, the first one he did it once, the first time. And then the other times, like when I went up to the room, since he did two different tests, perhaps he taped more than one.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So he did the first one, the second one and the third one?
Maria Gomez: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Okay. I have no further questions. Thank you.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Good morning.
Maria Gomez: Good morning.
Mr. Sneddon: How many times did you go up and down the stairs?
Maria Gomez: I cannot recall, but at that I did do more. Three or four times.
Mr. Sneddon: So we saw two times on the film, correct?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: But there were other times that did not appear on the film?
Maria Gomez: Maybe one or two times, I believe.
Mr. Sneddon: In each time you walked out of the doors of the room, you walked all the way to the end of the hallway, correct?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And then you turned around -- you went through the doors, correct?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you turned around and came right back, correct?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: So in each of the occasions that we saw on the film, you did exactly the same thing?
Maria Gomez: In the first -- the first test, I just got to the point and then returned. And then when I went up the stairs to the room, I waited -- I counted to about 15 and then I repeated the process. I came back.
Mr. Sneddon: And where was it that you counted to 15?
Maria Gomez: In front of the main doorway.
Mr. Sneddon: So you go all the way out, count to 15, and then come back?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: The chimes that go off, you can hear them when you go through the first door to begin your route down the hallway, correct?
Maria Gomez: What do you mean, when you're just about to go in?
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. You're outside of the hallway to Mr. Jackson's room, near the entrance of the front door of the house, correct?
Maria Gomez: I am inside the house by the doorway to the main residence.
Mr. Sneddon: Correct. And you're going to go through the first set of doors heading towards Mr. Jackson's bedroom?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you go through those doors the bells, the chimes, go off, correct?
Maria Gomez: When you reach about halfway down the hall.
Mr. Sneddon: And then they stop -- well, and then the second set of chimes goes off right before you get to Mr. Jackson's door to his bedroom?
Maria Gomez: When you go in the doorway, the door to his room, then they begin to sound.
Mr. Sneddon: For the second time?
Maria Gomez: Yes. I don't know if it's because you're standing by the lift or when you press the code or what it is.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, during the year -- during the time of February and March of 2003, were you responsible for cleaning Mr. Jackson's room?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Sneddon: During February and March of 2003, did you go into Mr. Jackson's room for any reason?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Sneddon: In -- were you at work the day that the sheriff's deputies came to the ranch and executed the search warrant?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And that was November of 2003, correct?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And at that time were you responsible for cleaning Mr. Jackson's room?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Had you gone into Mr. Jackson's room during 2003 at all?
Maria Gomez: No.
Mr. Sneddon: In 2004, the next year - okay? --
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: -- were you responsible for cleaning Mr. Jackson's room at that time?
Maria Gomez: I have never been in that position.
Mr. Sneddon: And during 2004, did you ever go into Mr. Jackson's bedroom?
Maria Gomez: Perhaps.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you remember -- let's go back to 2003. Do you remember during 2003 whether both of those chimes were working?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And if you didn't go into Mr. Jackson's bedroom during that time, what were you doing going down the hallway?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Argumentative as phrased.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Maria Gomez: Could you repeat that again?
Mr. Sneddon: Yes. You told the jury that during 2003, you did not go into Mr. Jackson's bedroom.
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And I'm asking you, if you did not go into his bedroom, why would you be in the hallway leading to his bedroom?
Maria Gomez: There is a bathroom in that hallway.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay.
Maria Gomez: And that hallway is our responsibility to clean. And then -- and then when one is walking in that hallway, you will hear the chimes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. That's what I wanted to get to. Now, during 2003 you did clean that bathroom, correct?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when you do that, the alarm only goes off once, correct, when you go through the first set of doors?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Misstates the evidence and compound.
The Court: Overruled.
Maria Gomez: It -- it rings -- I don't know. It will ring and then it stops.
Mr. Sneddon: During 2003, in November, when the sheriff's deputies came to Mr. Jackson's ranch, is it your testimony that the alarm through the first set of doors was working?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And in December of 2004, do you recall sheriff's deputies coming back to Mr. Jackson's main residence on another occasion?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you were there?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And is it your testimony that the chimes at the first set of doors were working during December of 2004?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: All right. Nothing further.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: I believe you said that the alarm goes off the first time when you're just about the middle of the hallway; is that correct?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And this is a hallway that has a lot of stuff in it; is that right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And you need to dust and clean in there; is that correct?
Maria Gomez: Yes, we are responsible for that place.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So aside from the bathroom that's off that hallway, you need to go down the hallway to Mr. Jackson's door and dust and do things, right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: So the alarm that we heard is the same alarm that you've heard for years in that hallway; is that right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And you were just asked by Mr. Nimmer to help him by walking, right?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: This was not your idea to be in this, was it?
Maria Gomez: Oh, no. No, no.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Your Honor, what I'd like to do is play Exhibit 345, which is already in evidence, and this was the People's version of the alarm that they taped on November 18, 2003.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sanger: If I may play that. I'm going to play that in one second, and when I do, I'm simply going to ask that you watch this and then -- I'll play this one all the way through. It's very short. And when we get through playing it, then I'll ask you a few questions about it, okay? And I don't believe you were there at the time, so I'm just going to ask you to watch it. (Whereupon, a DVD, Plaintiff's Exhibit 345, was played for the Court and jury.)
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, that's a very short film there, and we don't know exactly where the cameraman was on that picture. Did you hear a bell in that?
Maria Gomez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Was that the first bell or the second bell; do you know?
Maria Gomez: The second bell.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So the first bell would have already gone off from somebody going through the middle of the hallway?
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Calls for a conclusion and speculation as to that point in time.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did you hear the bell that goes off when you go through the middle of the hallway in that tape?
Maria Gomez: I wasn't present at that time.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. All right. Okay. I have no further questions.
Mr. Sneddon: No questions, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down. Call your next witness.
Mr. Sanger: Can I just have one second, Your Honor? (Off-the-record discussion held at counsel table.)
Mr. Auchincloss: May we approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes. (Discussion held off the record at sidebar.)
Mr. Sanger: All right. My apologies, Your Honor. As the Court knows, we're all getting down to the end here, so we've got a few details to work out. We would call Mr. Radakovich, whose name I probably mispronounced. I apologize in advance.
The Court: Come forward, please. When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing. Face the clerk over here, raise your right hand.
Message: MIKE RADAKOVICH Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Mike Radakovich: Yes, I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Mike Radakovich: My name is Mike Radakovich. R-a-d-a-k-o-v-i-c-h.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I did mispronounce your name, but you weren't in the room so you didn't hear it. Mr. Radakovich, what do you do for a living?
Mike Radakovich: I'm a certified public accountant.
Mr. Sanger: How long have you done that?
Mike Radakovich: Around 30 years.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And where do you have your office?
Mike Radakovich: In San Luis Obispo, California.
Mr. Sanger: And do you work in this area, in the Santa Maria area as well?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, I've testified both in Santa Maria and San Luis Obispo County.
Mr. Sanger: In addition to doing forensic work, which is testifying in court, do you do ordinary CPA-type duties?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I'm going to -- maybe I should have this marked first, Your Honor, as defense next in order. I'm going to ask that a chart, an analysis chart, be marked, and my guess is that would be 5105. May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to -- I'm going to show you 5105 for identification and ask you if you prepared that chart?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: And did you prepare that chart after reviewing certain documents?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, I'm going to show you what's been marked for identification as 5097, which appears to be a Washington Mutual Bank statement, and also 5098, which appears to be a Washington Mutual Bank copy of a cashier's check. May I approach for that purpose?
Mr. Auchincloss: Can I see that?
Mr. Sanger: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now I'm showing you those two documents. And for the record, Your Honor, those have been retrieved from subpoenaed documents from Washington National Bank. I believe counsel's indicated they have no objection to the foundation as being subpoenaed business records.
Mr. Auchincloss: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Were those two of the documents that you looked at in the course of preparing your analysis sheet?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, it was.
Mr. Sanger: Now, on your analysis sheet, there are two entries at the very beginning that indicate “Date” and “Source”, and the “Source” on those first two entries are “Louise Palanker” and the amounts on those two entries are $10,000 apiece. Do you see those?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you reviewed copies of those checks; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: And you put those on your analysis sheet, correct?
Mike Radakovich: Correct. Those are two checks. One was written to Ms. Janet Arvizo and one was to Mr. David Arvizo.
Mr. Auchincloss: Your Honor, I'm going to object to statements being read from this report and --
Bailiff Cortez: Can't hear you, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object to statements being read into the record from this report, as well as referencing this document as an analysis before there is some foundation laid as to its admissibility on the basis of hearsay, authentication and relevance.
Mr. Sanger: I don't think I asked him, Your Honor, to read from the report. I just asked him if he made an entry as to two checks.
Mr. Auchincloss: I believe counsel has already read the first two entries to the witness.
The Court: So I think what -- your objection is that the items are not in evidence yet?
Mr. Auchincloss: They're not in evidence and no foundation has been laid.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, I believe they are in evidence. I believe these were admitted in evidence by the prosecution some time ago.
The Court: What number?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm not referring to the items. I'm referring to this document that counsel is reading from. My foundation and hearsay --
The Court: That's the question. What I need to know is are they in evidence.
Mr. Sanger: The two Palanker checks are in evidence, Your Honor. And I know you're going to ask me the number and I don't have the number off the top of my head.
The Court: That's all right. Do both sides agree they're in evidence?
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes, I believe those two documents are in evidence, those two checks.
The Court: Your objection is overruled.
Mr. Sanger: So now we go down to -- so, before we go down there, as to those two checks, did you simply record, from the information on the checks, the date, the source, the amount, and a brief description?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now we're going to go down to the next lines and we'll try to take these all at once. They would be the next five lines. And those appear to be references to deposits in the Washington Mutual account.
Mike Radakovich: Yes, those are the same deposits that appear on this bank statement that you handed me, Exhibit No. 5097, as being deposits into that Washington Mutual account.
Mr. Sanger: So 5097 appears to be a bank statement; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And that bank statement is from what bank?
Mike Radakovich: Washington Mutual Bank.
Mr. Sanger: And who is the account holder?
Mike Radakovich: The name at the top of the statement is Janet Arvizo, FBO Gavin Anton Arvizo.
Mr. Sanger: What does FBO mean?
Mike Radakovich: My understanding, that's “for the benefit of”.
Mr. Sanger: That's an account that Janet Arvizo -- under ordinary banking practices, Janet Arvizo would have the ability to sign on and she is putting it in the form that it's for the benefit of somebody else; is that right?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, from that exhibit, 50 -- which exhibit was that? 5097?
Mike Radakovich: The bank statement is 5097, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Yeah. From 5097, did you record the date of the various deposits?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir. Those appear in the column headed “Date”.
Mr. Sanger: And then we'll skip “Source” for a second. Under “amount”, you indicated the amounts that were deposited into the account; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And then you have, under “Description”, “Deposit into” that particular bank account number, “Janet Arvizo, FBO Gavin Anton Arvizo”, correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, the source says, “Fund-raiser”. Were you asked to assume that there had been testimony in this case that moneys were deposited in that account from fund-raisers?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, that was my assumption.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So between that assumption and what you saw on Exhibit 5097, the next five entries would be correct; is that right?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object to foundation as to the source and assumptions made by the witness regarding specifics -- specific sources for these five deposits. I don't think there's been any testimony concerning those specific deposits and the sources.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: There was testimony that this account was set up by Janet Arvizo; that she had set up an account and she admitted on cross-examination that the money had gone in and she had withdrawn it all. So this is an expert witness -- although his expertise for the purposes of this is very limited, but he's an expert witness who's being asked to simply organize these facts. And I asked him to assume hypothetically that there had been proof that this money came from a fund-raiser, which is consistent with prior testimony.
Mr. Auchincloss: And that is a matter of contention.
The Court: As to whether it came from the prior testimony or not?
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes, and the specific source for these deposits on these individual dates.
The Court: Well, I'll allow the witness to make that assumption. (To the jury) It goes back to an instruction I gave you a long time ago, it seems now, about hypothetical questions. Remember that? It was a short instruction, but basically it tells you that when a hypothetical question is proposed to a witness or propounded to a witness, the jury, the fact finder, still has to determine whether or not the underlying hypotheticals are proven or not, when you consider this witness's testimony. So I'll just remind you of that instruction, and allow the attorney to proceed with this line, making it clear that you're -- Use the word “hypothetical”, if you would, so that the jury understands that, and then I'll -- based on that, I'll overrule the prosecution's objection.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So other than the characterization of “Fund-raiser” on those next five lines, the rest you simply recorded from the documents, from the Washington Mutual records, correct?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, I'm going to show you 5099 for identification. If I may approach, Your Honor.
The Court: You may.
Mr. Sanger: 5099 is a copy of a check; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And, Your Honor, that also comes from the materials that were business records that were subpoenaed, and there's a stipulation as to the foundation.
Mr. Sanger: As to 5099, did you record on the next line of your analysis the date that that check was written?
Mike Radakovich: I recorded the date it was deposited. It was actually written on November 2nd.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And it was deposited November 5?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And that was 2001; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: The source is Michael Adler?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, Michael Adler.
Mr. Sanger: And it looks like it says “Alder” here.
Mike Radakovich: It is -- it's hard to read a copy of the copy, but I think it is Alder. A-l-d-e-r.
Mr. Sanger: And then the amount is $32,308; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And that amount was deposited in that same account; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, there's a notation, “J.C. Penney lawsuit”. Do you see that under “Description”?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, that's under the “Description”, “J.C. Penney lawsuit”. On the check itself it says, under “Memo”, “Arvizo settlement”.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And were you asked to assume that there had been testimony -- for the purpose of a hypothetical for the entry of this material on your analysis, that there had been testimony that the settlement source was a J.C. Penney lawsuit?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, I'm going to ask you to look at 5098, which is a document dated November 9, 2001; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And what does that appear to represent?
Mike Radakovich: About four days after the $32,000 is deposited, Ms. Arvizo withdraws $29,000 from the same account, and it's made into a money order payable to Hollywood Ford.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, could you determine that on November 9, 2001, Janet Arvizo withdrew $29,000, approximately, from her Washington Mutual Bank account?
Mike Radakovich: I see that same amount clearing the bank after this check is drawn.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So you determined that from the Washington Mutual Bank account records; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And then the actual document that you have in front of you is a -- what appears to be a cashier's -- a copy of a cashier's check; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, do you know if that cashier's check actually was cashed by Hollywood Ford?
Mike Radakovich: I do not know where it was cashed. I do know that there's a withdrawal from the bank around that time for $29,000.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And is there any indication that $29,000 went back into the account?
Mike Radakovich: I never saw it go back into the account.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, the next line under the analysis is December 2001 --
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: -- is that correct? Were you asked for the purpose of preparing this analysis to assume that Azja Pryor had testified in this court that she had given $600 to Janet Arvizo in December of 2001?
Mike Radakovich: That's the assumption that I've made, yes.
Mr. Sanger: And -- okay. And I'm sorry, I couldn't help overhearing Mr. Sneddon, so I apologize, but it was a stage whisper. Whether it's cash or a cashier's check, were you asked to assume that money was given to Azja Pryor?
Mike Radakovich: I assumed money was given to Azja Pryor.
Mr. Sanger: You assume that because you were asked to assume that, for the purpose of preparing this, correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, if -- we're going to skip -- no, we aren't. We're going to go from January 2 through March 17, and I'm going to show you a series of checks and these checks are Nos. 5100 through 5104. May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: I'm showing you 5100 through 5104. Those are documents that came from the bank records that have been subpoenaed of Jay Jackson, and I'm going to ask you if you reviewed those for the purpose of preparing this analysis?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, I did. They are listed on my schedule.
Mr. Sanger: And is the information listed on the schedule the information that comes directly off of all of those checks?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Could we have the actual exhibit numbers traced to the individual exhibits?
Mr. Sanger: Sure. So 5100 would be the January 2 welfare check of $769; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: And that was deposited into Jay Jackson's Bank of America account; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, it was.
Mr. Sanger: And then 5101 was the same date, January 2, 2003, and that's a check from Jay Jackson to Raymond Trujillo, rent for Soto Street apartment.
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then 5102 is a February 24 welfare check for $769, and that was deposited in Jay Jackson's Bank of America account?
Mike Radakovich: Actually, the check is February 15th. I think it was deposited February 24th.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So the date of the check is the 15th, deposited February 24th?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And there's a notation that apparently somebody switched the numbers around at the bank, and they had to correct that error?
Mike Radakovich: Yeah. Being an accountant, it's not unusual to transpose numbers. And when it was first deposited, it was deposited as $796, and the bank caught that. And so when it first -- it shows up as a deposit on his bank deposit as $796, and Bank of America catches it and takes $27 back out of the account.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So the bottom line -- aside from all that accounting business within the bank, the bottom line is the welfare check of $769 was deposited into Jay Jackson's Bank of America account, correct?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: And the next one is 5103, and that's a check from Jay Jackson of $425, a rent payment to Raymond Trujillo for the Soto Street apartment; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: And the last one, 5104, appears to be a welfare check; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, dated March 17th, 2003.
Mr. Sanger: And that's for $769?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: And that appears to have been cashed by Janet Arvizo?
Mike Radakovich: It's hard to read, but I -- it looks like it's her signature.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Okay. Your Honor, we would move into evidence 5097 through 5104, which are those documents as exhibit records from the various accounts.
Mr. Auchincloss: No objection.
The Court: They're admitted.
Mr. Sanger: Now, looking at your analysis for the moment, or back to that, the last five entries are entries for which you did not have specific documentation; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Correct. Except for the February 6th through March 12th, I did review what I referred to as Exhibits 414 and 416.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Well, let's start with that. Did you have an occasion to look at court exhibits 414 and 416?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And what did those appear to be?
Mike Radakovich: They appeared to be expense -- I guess you'd call them expense reports that showed various expenses being made and the notation on those was for Janet Arvizo.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And who -- whose bank account -- what was the name -- I'm sorry, let me withdraw that. What was the name of the entity for which this expense report was prepared?
Mike Radakovich: It was my understanding it was Neverland Valley Entertainment.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, were you able to come up with a precise number as to how much money had been expended on behalf of Janet Arvizo or her children as opposed to expended indirectly on her behalf in some other fashion?
Mike Radakovich: No, I was not, but it appeared to be several thousand dollars.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And were you asked to assume for the purpose of preparing this chart that there was testimony in this court indicating that several thousand dollars had been spent on behalf of Janet Arvizo and her children during this period of time?
Mike Radakovich: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So under the “Amount”, rather than putting an exact dollar amount, you just put “Several Thousand Dollars”; right?
Mike Radakovich: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Was your purpose to come up with a bottom line that was going to be computed?
Mike Radakovich: No.
Mr. Sanger: It was just to record these various transactions so we'd have them all in one place; is that right?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And then February -- the next line is February 5th to February 24th, 2003. And this says, “Source”, “Michael Jackson”. Were you asked to assume, for the purpose of preparing this, that there had been testimony that money had been expended on behalf of Janet Arvizo and her children for a trip to Miami, body wax, children's braces, lodging, travel, food expenses and so on?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: You indicated in the “Amount” column “Several Thousand Dollars”, correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Once again, did you have any ability to do an accounting as to what Mr. Jackson expended on behalf of these particular individuals?
Mike Radakovich: No, sir.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. All right. And then I see there's actually maybe a typo here. The next line is February 7 to March 12th, 2003. There's an indication, “Several Thousand Dollars”, “Living Expenses at Neverland Ranch”?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And it says, for some reason, “MJ Sounds” and I have no idea why it says “Sounds” there. Why don't we just strike that word out.
Mike Radakovich: That's fine.
Mr. Sanger: Was it -- were you asked to assume there had been testimony that this family had been living at the Neverland Ranch, the previous one was living elsewhere and other expenses for them, but this line being living expenses while they're at Neverland Ranch?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And again, you didn't know how much so you put “Several Thousand Dollars”; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: Now, the next line is February 20, 2003, and you indicated “Hamid Moslehi”, and the total amount of $2,000, and “Description”, “Cash”. Were you asked to assume that there was testimony in this trial that Hamid Moslehi had given Janet Arvizo $2,000 in cash on February 20th?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sanger: And were you asked to assume whether that was a loan or a gift or anything else or just that it was $2,000?
Mike Radakovich: I assumed that he received $2,000 -- or the Arvizo family received $2,000 from that gentleman.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And then the last entry is November 2 to present. It says “Source” is Jay Jackson. “Amount” is “Unknown”. Were you asked to assume that there had been testimony from Gavin and from Jay Jackson that Janet Arvizo had been living with Jay Jackson off and on from November 2002 to the present?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: And so you've indicated there would be some sort of lodging and use of an automobile based on the assumptions that we asked you to make; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Based on all of that, is this chart now a fair and accurate depiction of what you have just testified to, that is, the documents you received and looked at, and also the assumptions you were asked to make from the prior testimony?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, I would move into evidence Exhibit 5105.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'd object to the admission of that evidence, Your Honor. I'd like to take the witness on voir dire.
Bailiff Cortez: Microphone's off again, sir.
The Court: I'll -- I won't rule on the admissibility until after your cross-examination.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
Mr. Sanger: I was going to request to publish it so I could just show it to the jury, but I'll hold off, if that's all right, if I would be allowed to do that after Mr. Auchincloss concludes his cross, assuming it's admitted.
The Court: I'm going to hold off on the ruling until he examines. We could do it by voir dire or cross, but I think it's better just to do it by cross.
Mr. Sanger: With that exception, I would like to put this up if it's admitted later. I'll defer to Mr. Auchincloss.
The Court: All right.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Good morning, Mr. Radakovich.
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did I pronounce that correctly?
Mike Radakovich: Perfectly.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. I'm looking at Exhibit 5105 and I'm going to go through that with you somewhat quickly, but I want to focus on the items for which you do not have any evidence before you. There's several things you were asked to assume in this document and I want to talk about those, first of all. Beginning at the top of this document, you have a June 15th, 2000, entry from Louise Palanker, $10,000, check to Janet Arvizo. Have you seen that check, first of all?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, I have.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know if Janet Arvizo actually received, personally received, that $10,000?
Mike Radakovich: I saw a signature that appeared to be her signature on the back of it, cashing it. I don't know what happened to the funds.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. How about the check to David Arvizo, the next entry, July 10th? Can you tell us whether or not Janet Arvizo actually received that $10,000?
Mike Radakovich: The check was made out to David Arvizo.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Mike Radakovich: And it looked -- I've never seen his signature before to compare, because that was the only document that his signature was on, but it looked like he cashed it.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. But you have no evidence to lead you to believe or conclude that Janet Arvizo received that $10,000?
Mike Radakovich: No, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, what were you specifically asked to do in preparing this document, Exhibit 5105?
Mike Radakovich: Well, to look at particular transactions, and to basically list the pieces of information from those documents in the order that shows up on the schedule.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was the idea here to create a list of income that Janet Arvizo received between the dates of, let's say, June 15th, 2000, and I guess March 12th, 2003, over those three years?
Mike Radakovich: Not to list any income. Just to show the transactions.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Just to show a list of transactions?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was there any guidance as far as what transactions you were going to put in this list?
Mike Radakovich: I was provided, I'm going to call it a book of evidence, an evidence book, that had various checks. Some of which are in evidence here, additional ones that I don't know if they're in evidence or not in evidence as those checks from Louise Palanker. I was given those documents.
Mr. Auchincloss: You were given a book of documents?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Who gave you the book of documents?
Mike Radakovich: Actually it was delivered to my office, but it's my understanding it came from Mr. -- either Mr. Sanger's or Mr. Mesereau's office.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you have that book with you today?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, I do.
Mr. Auchincloss: May I approach and take a look at that item, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Thank you.
Mr. Auchincloss: So when you received this book -- I noticed that -- well, is it fair to say that the book has some additional documents in it apart from what you've included in your report on Exhibit 5105?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: And did you receive some guidance from Mr. Sanger or anybody else as to which documents were going to be selected out of that book to be included in this exhibit?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, we met and discussed the documents in the book and which ones Mr. Sanger wanted to have on the schedule and which ones had the actual documentation behind them.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Mike Radakovich: There were a lot of documents in the book.
Mr. Auchincloss: So Mr. Sanger told you what he wanted on this list?
Mike Radakovich: We had a meeting and we discussed various transactions. And I suppose, yes, he told me which transactions to put on the book, but it was a discussion that him and I had back and forth. We discussed various transactions.
Mr. Auchincloss: But many of these transactions you don't even have in that book; is that fair to say? You don't have any evidence of the transaction in the book that was delivered to you?
Mike Radakovich: Just the ones that Mr. Sanger brought up at the end from February 6th on. There aren't any indications of those in this book.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you also don't have any indication of the transaction involving Azja Pryor in December of 2001?
Mike Radakovich: I'm sorry. That one also. There's no indication for that.
Mr. Auchincloss: And some of this information in this report you don't have any knowledge of except based upon what Mr. Sanger told you; is that fair to say?
Mike Radakovich: I don't quite understand what you're asking.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, for instance, the source of the deposits to Janet Arvizo's account at Washington Mutual, you have no idea what the source of those deposits was?
Mike Radakovich: No, and I don't think I'm trying to -- all -- under “Description” I just say, “Deposit into the Washington Mutual account”. I'm not making any kind of opinion as to where I think those sources are coming from.
Mr. Auchincloss: But the “Source” you wrote in this document is “fund-raiser”, “fund-raiser”, “fund-raiser”, “fund-raiser”, “fund-raiser”, for those five documents. And you don't know that the source of those funds on those entries was, in fact, a fund-raiser except for what Mr. Sanger told you; is that fair to say?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, as he indicated, that was an assumption that was made.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So moving down the list, you assumed that each of those deposits came from a fund-raiser, but you don't have any knowledge of that?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Moving to the next entry, November 5th, 2001, there's a check from Michael Alder. It says, “J.C. Penney lawsuit”. Did Mr. Sanger ask you to assume that as well?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, and there was -- also I reviewed a J.C. Penney lawsuit settlement statement.
Mr. Auchincloss: And then moving down to the next one, that's a cashier's check from Hollywood Ford. Do you have any information as to whether or not that check to Hollywood check was cashed?
Mike Radakovich: Actually, it's a check to Hollywood Ford, not from --
Mr. Auchincloss: I misspoke. A check to Hollywood Ford. Do you have any idea whether that check was ever cashed?
Mike Radakovich: I have no idea.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you have any idea where those funds went?
Mike Radakovich: The check is made out to Hollywood Ford. I assume it went to Hollywood Ford.
Mr. Auchincloss: But that's all you have had. Does that check cashed -- does it indicate it's been cashed based upon the markings on the check?
Mike Radakovich: Well, what we have is a copy of a cashier's check. So we don't have the actual check itself. The check would have not been returned to Miss Arvizo. It would have been returned to the bank. When you get a cashier's check, it doesn't come back in the mail with your bank statement. It's returned to the bank.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Did you call Hollywood Ford?
Mike Radakovich: No, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: So you really don't know if Hollywood Ford received that check, true?
Mike Radakovich: All I can say is it was made out to Hollywood Ford.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you have any idea whether the $32,000, $32,308, do you have any idea whether those funds went to Janet Arvizo or if she shared those with her husband or if they went to somebody else? Do you have any idea where those funds went ultimately?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, I do. They went to the Washington Mutual account and they were deposited into the Washington Mutual account, the $32,000.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes.
Mike Radakovich: And about seven or eight days later, the funds were basically cleared out when she wrote a check to Hollywood Ford. Basically, money comes into the bank and the money goes out to Hollywood Ford.
Mr. Auchincloss: So with the exception of the $3,000, approximately, $3,000?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. But we're back to my previous question. You don't know what happened to that $29,000, exactly where those funds went?
Mike Radakovich: Well, it went to Hollywood Ford. I guess I'm --
Mr. Auchincloss: You have a cashier's check, but you said you didn't have an indication whether or not that check was cashed, true?
Mike Radakovich: No, I -- the funds were withdrawn from the bank. I know that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes.
Mike Radakovich: The funds were withdrawn from the bank. There is a check on that same day for the same amount to Hollywood Ford. It's not unreasonable to think that that check went to Hollywood Ford.
Mr. Auchincloss: Gotcha. But that's an assumption that you're making, correct? You don't have any direct evidence that that check was cashed at Hollywood Ford, true?
Mike Radakovich: Well, the check was made out to Hollywood Ford, the funds left the bank. I guess I'm assuming that, but I guess I assumed the sun came up this morning, too.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, let me throw another assumption at you.
The Court: Let's take a -- let's assume we're going to take a break. (Laughter.)
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Auchincloss: Where we left off, Mr. Radakovich, we were talking about whether the sun was going to come up tomorrow, and I wanted to just ask you about another assumption, okay? Assume that you take a -- you go into your bank, your bank is Washington Mutual, let's say, and you have a $30,000 balance in your account. And you go in and you get a cashier's check for $30,000 for, let's say, an automobile dealer. You walk out of the bank intending to buy a car, and you turn around and you say, “You know, I don't really want that car”, and you walk back into the bank and you say, “I've changed my mind. Here's my receipt. Here's my cashier's check. I don't want the car. I just want cash”. The bank will negotiate that check for you, won't they?
Mike Radakovich: I would assume so, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: So there's an example where that check would not have gone to Hollywood Ford, a conceivable possibility?
Mike Radakovich: That would be a possibility, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you can't testify whether or not Hollywood Ford actually received that check, true?
Mike Radakovich: No, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: So the sun will come up tomorrow; is that fair to say?
Mike Radakovich: I certainly hope so.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Let's go back down to the next entry involving Azja Pryor. You had absolutely no information as to that particular transaction except for what Mr. Sanger told you?
Mike Radakovich: He told me that that was admitted as -- I don't know the legal term. Was admitted as evidence or there was testimony as to that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. But in terms of him supplying you with any hard documentation, any accounting records of any kind, you have nothing to justify that except for what Mr. Sanger told you, true?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Now --
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object. Really I asked him to assume that for purposes of a hypothetical --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to --
Mr. Sanger: -- as opposed to just --
The Court: The objection is overruled. Next question.
Mr. Auchincloss: Moving down, let's see, let's go to the four -- five final transactions. Now, each of these transactions were based completely on assumptions or hypotheticals that Mr. Sanger gave you; is that correct?
Mr. Sanger: Objection; misstates the evidence.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll ask a different question.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Auchincloss: Strike that.
Mr. Auchincloss: With the exception of Exhibits 414 and 416 -- same question. With the exception of those two exhibits, which I believe you were supplied, correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did the rest of this information come from Mr. Sanger?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And as far as the amounts that are itemized, we don't have specific amounts for any of these transactions, with the exception of the one involving Hamid Moslehi, $2,000, true?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So we don't really know what kind of dollar figure we're talking about with each of those transactions?
Mike Radakovich: No, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And have you ever prepared a document like this before?
Mike Radakovich: I've prepared many documents. Yes, I prepared many documents. I'm not sure when you say “like this” --
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, a document that included many assumptions and unknown amounts and hypotheticals.
Mike Radakovich: I've prepared documents for different cases, and it seems like almost every single case is different. I'm not sure exactly how to answer that question. I mean, I have never prepared a document just like this one, because this case is different than the next case.
Mr. Auchincloss: Let me ask you another question. You said that this was a fair and accurate document. But in fact, it's not accurate at all because we don't know the figures that we're talking about; isn't that fair to say?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Argumentative, and misstates the evidence as a matter of fact.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mike Radakovich: It's fair and accurate based on the assumptions that underlie the schedule.
Mr. Auchincloss: Assuming that all of Mr. Sanger's hypotheticals are accurate, then it's fair and accurate?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: With the exception of the fact that it's not accurate in the amounts that you provided for these various transactions for which you have no specific amount, known amount; is that fair to say?
Mike Radakovich: It's accurate based on the assumptions that were used to prepare it. I don't know how else to say that.
Mr. Auchincloss: What does “several thousand dollars” mean in terms of accuracy?
Mike Radakovich: Well, it was explained to me, as an example; that they flew to Miami and that they stayed at a hotel. And it would be my experience that that would be several thousand dollars to get there, to stay at the hotel, and the assumption that the goods and services provided them would probably be several thousand dollars.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Thank you, Mr. Radakovich. Thank you. No further questions.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, I would ask to admit 5105, which is the summary chart.
Mr. Auchincloss: And we would object to the admission of that document based upon improper foundation and -- or lack of foundation.
The Court: Right now I'll sustain the objection to the chart. I think, basically, it would be helpful in your final argument as an exhibit of -- you know, to explain to the jury that, but I don't think that it has an evidentiary value independently of argument, so --
Mr. Sanger: It is foundational to the next witness. That's the purpose of doing it this way. Could we approach for a moment, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you. (Discussion held off the record at sidebar.)
Mr. Sanger: May I approach the witness to retrieve the exhibits that have been admitted?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And I'm holding out 5105. That was not. The others have been received and I'd like permission, then, to publish them.
The Court: You may.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm putting up these documents that have been received. They've been received into evidence and -- do we have our laser thing there?
Ms. Yu: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: Sorry. Technical moment here. There we go. Thank you. There we go.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. What I want to do is go through these quickly. You've already testified to them before they were received, but just to publish them so the jury can see what we're talking about. This is Exhibit 5097, and you referred to this exhibit. You indicated it showed an account, “Janet Arvizo, FBO Gavin Anton Arvizo”, correct?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And the address for the statement was in El Monte on Ramer Street; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And this particular exhibit -- I want to be careful not to shine this in the court reporter's eyes here. This particular exhibit shows deposits and withdrawals from this particular FBO account; correct?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you had indicated that -- there we go. I think our laser is getting faint here for some reason. It may be running out of battery or something. Okay. These are the deposits, and you listed those -- well, never mind what you listed. But the deposits show how much money went into this account?
Mike Radakovich: Looks like $7,000 in that one month, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. All right. And that month would have been December, and actually into January. December of 2000 and January of 2001; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you. Let's see if we can get a -- whoa, that's a lot better. Okay. Let's take 5098. Now, in looking at this particular document, this is the copy of the Hollywood Ford cashier's check, correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, that's the infamous Hollywood Ford check.
Mr. Auchincloss: And basically you don't have a copy of that thing that's endorsed by Hollywood Ford to show that it actually went into one of their accounts; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Again, as I said, because it's not returned to the person writing the check. It goes back to the bank.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. However, did it appear, from your review of the records, that this money ever went back into Janet Arvizo's account?
Mike Radakovich: I never saw it going back into any account I looked at, no.
Mr. Auchincloss: So in other words, whether Hollywood Ford got it or somebody else got it, it did not go back into Janet Arvizo's account?
Mike Radakovich: That I could see, that is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Now, I'll put up 5099, and that is very hard to read. But it appears to be Mr. Alder's check; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes. That was a check from Mr. Alder's office to Janet Arvizo. And the bottom, where the “Memo” says “Arvizo settlement”, it's $32,307.88.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, you said you also reviewed the J.C. Penney's settlement documents, or lawsuit documents; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did it appear that other Arvizo family members received additional sums in their name in addition to the amount that Janet Arvizo received?
Mike Radakovich: Yeah, the total settlement was $152,000.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Some of that went to attorney's fees and costs?
Mike Radakovich: Attorney fees and costs, and I think some went to the kids, and I think Mr. Arvizo received a check. And I think this was the check that went to Janet, or obviously this is a check that went to Janet.
Mr. Auchincloss: This is just Janet Arvizo's portion of that, right?
Mike Radakovich: That is my understanding.
Mr. Auchincloss: And I think you're doing okay, but you got to really speak --
Mike Radakovich: I'm scared I'm in their way over here. I feel like I'm at the movies and I want to --
Mr. Auchincloss: I think they can see over your head. The concern is make sure you talk into the microphone. Okay. And that amount of money went into this FBO account for Gavin and then was taken out shortly thereafter by virtue of whatever this transaction was with the Hollywood Ford cashier's check?
Mike Radakovich: That's correct. 32,000 goes in, 29,700 goes out, and then later that month the remaining 3,000 goes out.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And then the -- oh, I won't put all of these up, but we had the series of 5100 through 5104. This is 5100 that I'm putting up there. And that's basically a copy of a check that shows that it was deposited into Jay Jackson's account; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you had a couple of those; is that right?
Mike Radakovich: Right. And I also looked at the Bank of America account of Mr. Jackson and actually saw that same amount on that same day being deposited into his account.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. So the actual check record corresponded with the statement from the bank; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And similarly, looking at 5101, which I indicated was the rent payment for Soto Street, that's noted on there; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And that appeared to have been paid out of the Jay Jackson account to Raymond Trujillo; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you had a couple of those.
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, there were -- in the documents you looked at, there were a number of other payments made by Jay Jackson; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And were you asked to take a liberal approach to this? A conservative approach? Can you explain what you were asked to do?
Mike Radakovich: I looked at all the documents submitted to me, and there were a lot of documents I looked at. And I didn't see, in my opinion, the relevancy of those documents. There was just a check from Jay Jackson's account to American Express, but it didn't -- I mean, that's all I had. To me, that's a meaningless check. The --
Mr. Auchincloss: Let me stop you there, if I could, just so we can pick up on that point. In other words, you saw a number of expenditures, but you couldn't tie them directly with the information you had to Janet Arvizo; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: So you took the representative ones here that are clearly for something that has been identified as a residence of Janet Arvizo; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Now, I want to ask you -- Switching gears here for a second, I'd like to first approach the witness and I'm going to come back and put this up on the board, if I can. I'd like to approach the witness with the book that includes Exhibit 414 and 416 that have already been received into evidence. And while I'm at the microphone here, I'll just say it here so we don't have a colloquy up there. I'm just going to ask you to look at 414 and 416. And these have been placed in these glassine protectors, or whatever they are, and unfortunately the book is broken on the top, and it tends to come apart, so we've got to be careful flipping through. I'm going to ask you to look through 414 and then look through 416, and tell me if those appear to be the same documents that you looked at earlier, okay? Did I ask if I may approach? I think I did, yes. In fact, what we'll do is just start with 414.
Mike Radakovich: Yes. This is the document I previously saw.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Now, on 414, that appears to be a report of some sort that was generated on behalf of a company called Neverland Valley Entertainment, correct?
Mike Radakovich: I don't know who it was generated on. It's a Quicken report generated by the Quicken software, and it appears to be disbursements with different categories, such as Panda Express, Anchor Blue Clothing, Johnny Rocket's, with various dollar amounts and then a running balance going forward.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And at the end -- so the running balance going forward at the end should show you the total amount of the expenditures for the particular items included in that Quicken report; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Take your time.
Mike Radakovich: And what happens, the way the account reads, it starts at zero. Somebody puts in $2500, and that $2500 is eaten up, so your balance actually goes down, if that makes any kind of sense.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you tell -- and I'm sorry to put you on the spot here, but can you tell quickly about how much money was expended through that account? I see you brought a calculator. I'm not really encouraging you to use it, if you can give us an approximation.
Mike Radakovich: I'm going to give it about $7,000.
Mr. Auchincloss: So earlier when you said several thousand dollars, you see about 7,000 there; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, 7,000 or so.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Now, I'm going to ask you to turn to 416. And I'm going to come and help you, because the book is going to fall apart. If I may, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Let me just help you with this. All right?
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, I'll ask you to go through 416. Just kind of flip through it and see if that appears to be the same documents that we showed you as being a copy of 416.
Mike Radakovich: Yes. And the title of it is “Summary of Petty Cash Expenditures”, and it lists dates and various payees such as Banana Republic, Pacific Sunwear, Levi's. And then it has dollar amounts, $160, $450, and has a running total that adds up to $4,800 for about a one-month period. 4,800 for a month period.
Mr. Sanger: All right. May I retrieve the book? I'd like to publish selected pages.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you. And with the Court's permission -- oops, that's probably why the book is broken. It's because I did it wrong. No? Okay. With the Court's permission, I would like to take Exhibit 414, which has been received, and publish some representative pages here of the eight-page register, if I may.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now I'm taking them out of the book. And the first page of Exhibit 414, for the record, the little glassine envelope has a “1” on the bottom and it has a couple of computer disks inside. So I'm going to go to 2, page two of Exhibit 414, and just ask you if -- can you read that? Is it clear enough or --
Mike Radakovich: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: You can? Okay. Let's just start at the top. And all of these pages are set up the same way; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. So they've got a date, which appears to be obliterated by a hole punch. And then it's got “Number”, it says “N-U-M”, “Transaction”, “Spend”, “C”, “Received” and “Balance”. Do you know what those columns relate to in this Quicken register?
Mike Radakovich: Yes. The date is obviously the date. The number is probably a transaction number. Either a check number or a credit card number. The “Transaction” is somebody putting a description as to who the payee is and the reason for it. The “Spend” is the amount of the transaction. And the “Received”, as I was saying, was where somebody's putting money into that account. So the first transaction is an $80 deposit, so we have a balance of $80. The second transaction is Five Star Parking for $6. And so our balance now is only $74. And it goes into a running total.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. I'm sure everybody's up to date with us here, but the opening balance, somebody put -- the opening balance is zero, and then on 2-20 they record an $80 deposit, showing a balance of a deposit of $80, correct?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And then you have the next transaction, $6 is spent, so that leaves you $74 --
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- right? And you can follow this through. I'm going to move this particular page up a little bit. You had mentioned there was a $2500 deposit at some point, and that appears to have occurred on 2-25-03, 2500, correct?
Mike Radakovich: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And looks like there was a negative balance here after an expenditure at Robinson's-May -- actually, there's been a negative balance for a while here. And now the total is 2272.70, which means that the $2500 then replenished that account; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And in the various -- in the columns here for the period of time covered by this register, you have certain indications such as “Hair products for Janet”, “Outback Restaurant, Janet”, and looks like it says “Vinnie”?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right? And it also -- apparently “Gas for rental car”. That's also included in this account; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct. I think the -- I think the account title is “Janet”.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. All right. So if we take this through to the end, there's the same -- same accounting procedure through the entire seven pages.
Mike Radakovich: That's correct. And when I came up with that $7,000, I ran a mental total of all the deposits, that 80, the 2500, and I came up with around 7,000.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And that's why you're an accountant because you can do that fairly quickly. All right. Now, let me turn to -- I'm going to turn to the next exhibit, Your Honor. I just need to do it carefully. To Exhibit 416. And may I put that up on the board?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: It's been previously received.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. You talked about 416 and you told us that this appears to be what you reviewed. This is a handwritten, obviously, expenditure sheet of some sort; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And this appears to go from 2-26-03 to, looks like, 2-28-03?
Mike Radakovich: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. In any event, this has -- the bottom line for this period of time, it shows, you thought, about $4,000 in expenses?
Mike Radakovich: $4,817.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, they said “Cash left” of 180. So, to be technically correct, I suppose you'd subtract the 180 from that 4800?
Mike Radakovich: I believe that 180 is the amount of the expenditure --
Mr. Auchincloss: Oh, okay.
Mike Radakovich: -- to the left. So --
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Mike Radakovich: I don't know what “cash left” means.
Mr. Auchincloss: But the rest of the things seem to be expenditures of some sort for McDonald's, Mobil and so on, Baskin Robbins, I see, right?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Now, in the rest of Exhibit 416, there are -- the first two pages, there were a series -- there was a series of receipts; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, you did not go through and attempt to match all the receipts to expenditures; is that right?
Mike Radakovich: No, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to take page three and put this up here. There's a note, “Luggage for trip”. Do you see this up there?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, it appears to be to Wilson's down at the Camarillo Outlet.
Mr. Auchincloss: Wilson's is a leather or luggage store?
Mike Radakovich: I believe it is.
Mr. Auchincloss: And then there's a note, “Food”, and it shows a Denny's receipt?
Mike Radakovich: Denny's in Thousand Oaks.
Mr. Auchincloss: And I'll take the next page here quickly. I'll put that back there. It appears to be a Banana Republic receipt; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Correct. It looks like they're all from the Camarillo outlets.
Mr. Auchincloss: Pacific Sunwear. So all of these seem to be from the same general place?
Mike Radakovich: Yes, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And basically, if you go through here, based on your understanding of accounts and documenting accounts, it appears that somebody at least attempted to put together all the receipts, or put together receipts that would back up the kind of accounting document that you saw either in 414 or the beginning of 416; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: Correct. Assuming that those match up. Now, I didn't match them up, no.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you weren't asked to assume that every single one of these receipts pertained to Janet Arvizo.
Mike Radakovich: No, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: So if we look at Outback Steakhouse here, it looks like there's a number of different dinners that were purchased on a particular evening; is that correct. Five guests?
Mike Radakovich: That's correct. It appears that the total was $111, with a $10 tip.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And we've just gone through the tip of the iceberg here to save time, but I think there are -- if I'm not mistaken, in the exhibit there are about 60 pages. The last number is numbered 63. But assuming a couple of the pages are for the handwritten accounting in this exhibit, there are about 60 pages of documentation for this; is that correct?
Mike Radakovich: I would assume so, yes. Excuse me.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I have no further questions.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Just a couple of final questions. As far as the Exhibits 414 and 416, 414 has a number of entries indicating for Janet; is that true?
Mike Radakovich: That is my recollection, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do any of the entries likewise indicate a recipient of those services or goods for someone else other than Janet?
Mike Radakovich: I just remember seeing “Janet”, but I couldn't tell you every transaction, no.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And do you know who prepared that document?
Mike Radakovich: No, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know where it came from?
Mike Radakovich: Mr. Sanger gave it to me out of an evidence book.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. But other than that, you don't know who prepared it or under what circumstances it was prepared?
Mike Radakovich: No. For some reason in the back of my mind, I remember I was told it was Neverland Ranch or -- but I don't really --
Mr. Auchincloss: Neverland Valley Entertainment?
Mike Radakovich: But I don't even know who that is.
Mr. Auchincloss: And as far as Exhibit 416, which has the handwriting entries, those handwritten entries, by and large, don't associate those goods with any individual; is that fair to say?
Mike Radakovich: I'd have to look at the document. I thought there was some indication, but I don't remember.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you remember seeing any entries that indicated goods or services for Frank and Vinnie?
Mike Radakovich: Those names I remember.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So some of those entries were things that Frank or Vinnie arguably received. At least that's what it indicates?
Mike Radakovich: I would agree with that, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were there entries for The Country Inn & Suites?
Mike Radakovich: I don't remember that particular entry.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were there entries for gasoline?
Mike Radakovich: I remember seeing gasoline.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And there were a number of entries for fast food places; is that fair to say?
Mike Radakovich: That is correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Thank you. No further questions.
Mr. Sanger: No further questions.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down. Call your next witness.
Mr. Sanger: We'll call Mercy Manrriquez. And -- and, Your Honor, while the witness is coming in here, maybe we could approach quickly on a procedural matter.
The Court: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Try to handle this with the clerk. (Discussion held off the record at sidebar.)
The Court: Would you remain standing, please, and face the clerk here and raise your right hand.
Message: MERCY DEE MANRRIQUEZ Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Mercy Manrriquez: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Mercy Manrriquez: Mercy Dee Manrriquez. M-e-r-c-y, D-e-e, M-a-n-r-r-i-q-u-e-z.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Your Honor, before we start -- well, let me start with this so everybody knows where we are.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Miss Manrriquez, how are you employed?
Mercy Manrriquez: I'm employed by the County of Los Angeles, the Department of Public Social Services.
Mr. Sanger: What does the Department of Public Social Services do?
Mercy Manrriquez: The program I'm involved in -- we determine eligibility for people that are requesting public assistance.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And you're doing pretty much okay, but maybe you can pull the right microphone up just a little bit. It's kind of a hard one to talk into.
Mercy Manrriquez: Okay. Is that better?
Mr. Sanger: That's a little better. You're doing okay, actually. All witnesses tend to fall off a bit if we're not careful. Okay. So you determine welfare eligibility, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you personally know an individual by the name of Janet Ventura Arvizo?
Mercy Manrriquez: No, I don't.
Mr. Sanger: We have subpoenaed the records from the Department of Public Social Services and I believe the clerk has them. And pursuant to prior orders, they have not been opened by anybody. So I would ask that --
The Court: Do you have those?
Mr. Sanger: And, Your Honor, I'm going to ask that the witness and counsel be allowed to inspect those documents. I believe the Department of Public Social Services required a court order that the witness be allowed to testify as to this particular individual, if I'm not mistaken. Is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: So we would request an order; the Court order the witness to testify regarding Janet Arvizo.
The Court: In anticipation of this this morning, I reviewed these records. Sorry. In anticipation of this this morning, I reviewed these records, and I will make a determination that the Court has waived the privacy privileges involved and finds that the probative value and the nature of these proceedings are such that I will order the records revealed and order the Department of Social Services to answer the questions propounded by both sides here today.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you, Your Honor. Procedurally, may both counsel take a quick look at it, since we haven't seen it yet?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Can we approach and do that?
The Court: Why don't you just take them. There were several envelopes. The mailing envelope I'm discarding. There was an envelope that also was opened to ensure that the subpoena had been complied with, and then I reviewed the records.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Could --
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Could Mr. Auchincloss and I just have a moment so we can see where we're going?
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, there are a few pages in here that are upside down. And with the permission of counsel, I'm going to turn them right side up, if that's all right.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sanger: Otherwise, I'll try to leave it in the same condition. Your Honor, both counsel and I have had an opportunity to review the documents that were subpoenaed to the court. And I believe they were delivered in January, if I'm not mistaken. And we've just now taken a look at them. What I propose to do, if it's all right with the Court, I'd like to question the witness on these documents, so I would ask that we mark them all as one exhibit. There is the Court's order endorsing the subpoena duces tecum from November 5, 2004. I would remove that, unless somebody wants to keep it in there.
The Court: That's fine to remove it.
Mr. Sanger: I'll remove that and we'll just give that back and lodge it with the Court. And then I suppose the envelope and the -- all the documents could be marked as one exhibit next in order.
The Court: That will be fine.
The Clerk: That would be 5106.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. We're back to you. Sorry to make you sit there so long. All right. What I -- we have these documents marked as Exhibit 5106 for identification, and I would actually move to admit them at this time as based on -- based on the Evidence Code section 1560 verification.
The Court: As official records?
Mr. Sanger: As official records.
The Court: They're admitted.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you. May I approach the witness?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now I'm going to ask you just to flip through that, if you would, just so you feel comfortable with what's in there. And I am going to go through and ask you questions on some of the documents as we go along. Okay. Miss Manrriquez, have you had a chance to flip through those and get a feel for what's in there?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, I want to ask you some questions in general, and then I'm going to come down and retrieve those from you after a little while. Not right now, so you can look at them. And I'm going to ask permission to put some of them up on the screen as we go along. But let's start. So you're free to answer the questions, if you know, directly. If you need to refer to the file, indicate that you want to do that, and then we can do that as well, okay?
Mercy Manrriquez: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: So first of all, let me ask you some general questions about welfare eligibility. What is the function of the welfare eligibility worker?
Mercy Manrriquez: To determine eligibility for the participants that are receive -- there's the three programs that I work, Cal-Works, which is cash assistance, food stamps, and Medi-Cal.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And are these benefits distributed by the State of California, the County of Los Angeles, the federal government, or what?
Mercy Manrriquez: The County of Los Angeles. The County of Los Angeles.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And wherever the funds come from initially, it's the County of Los Angeles that is given the job of deciding who should get the funds?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Now, you said there are three categories. The first one was Cal-Works; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Cal-Works.
Mr. Sanger: Can you spell that so we can hear what you're saying?
Mercy Manrriquez: C-a-l-W-o-r-k-s.
Mr. Sanger: It's Cal-Works?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And Cal-Works is what kind of a program?
Mercy Manrriquez: That's the cash assistance.
Mr. Sanger: If somebody comes in and has an emergency need for cash, can they -- I'm sorry. If somebody comes in and they can make a showing that they have a need for emergency cash, would it be distributed under that program?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes. They need to meet the qualifications.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, as to all of the programs, is there -- I mean, this is an obvious question, but is there a bottomless pit of money that's out there to be distributed to people in California?
Mercy Manrriquez: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Is it important to determine who really needs the assistance?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: Why is that? It may be an obvious question, but why is that?
Mercy Manrriquez: In my opinion, I would think it would be to cut down on the fraud.
Mr. Sanger: And if people come in and do not accurately represent to you their assets or the availability of funds or people to assist them in their living expenses, does that keep you from doing your job properly?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it would.
Mr. Sanger: And if they willfully exclude any of those items I just mentioned, would that amount to fraud?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it would.
Mr. Sanger: It's your job to try to eliminate fraud the best you can or avoid fraud the best you can so you give money to people who really deserve it and need it; is that correct?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Argumentative; leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Mr. Sanger: Now, do you have an opportunity to verify everything that people put in the written applications to you?
Mercy Manrriquez: No, not everything.
Mr. Sanger: Do you have an opportunity to verify everything that people tell you orally in interviews or over the phone?
Mercy Manrriquez: No, not always.
Mr. Sanger: Do you have to depend on people telling the truth when they fill out the various forms?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, one of the forms that you had there I think was an eligibility form, and I think it's -- well, it's called Statement of Facts. So I don't really know what it is. But I think you've got something there called a Statement of Facts; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Can you tell us what the purpose of that document is?
Mercy Manrriquez: This is their application to determine their eligibility.
Mr. Sanger: Do you depend on people to be honest when they fill out a form like that, or fill out that particular form?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, we do.
Mr. Sanger: And do you make decisions as to who should receive benefits based on the information in that form?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Is that form signed under penalty of perjury?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: Now, were you the actual eligibility worker who worked with Janet Arvizo to determine her eligibility?
Mercy Manrriquez: I was her intake worker.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And so as the intake worker, you went over this form with her?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you have that form as part of the exhibit?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sanger: I've now forgotten what the exhibit number is. I apologize.
Mr. Mesereau: 5106.
Mr. Sanger: 5106.
Mr. Sanger: So you have 5106, which is the big packet of information there?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And right towards the top is the actual Statement of Facts application part of that?
Mercy Manrriquez: You have two Statement of Facts in this exhibit here.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Is there a reason for that? Because I have no idea. We just opened it.
Mercy Manrriquez: The first one that's dated 11-15-01, that's her intake. The second one, which is dated 10-23-02, is her yearly affirmation.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, how many -- you've got one application for November 15th of '01?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Could I have the Post-its there? Just the little ones. The little ones.
Mr. Sanger: You have the initial application and then you have one for 2002; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Do you have one for 2003?
Mercy Manrriquez: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. The first date was November 2001. The second one was November 2002; is that right?
Mercy Manrriquez: No. The first one is 11-15-01, and the next one is 10-23-02.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So 11-15, November 15 of 2001, and then October-something of 2002, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: So if Janet Arvizo had continued, wanted to continue to collect money through your office in October or November of 2003, she would have had to fill out an annual form at that time; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Is there also a monthly form that you have to fill out when you're receiving welfare?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, there is.
Mr. Sanger: And what monthly form is there?
Mercy Manrriquez: It's called a CEW7. CW7.
Mr. Sanger: CW7, okay. We have to learn a new vocabulary every time we get into a new area. So the CW7 is a monthly form. In order for somebody to receive a check, do they have to file that monthly form?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes. There are exceptions, but the norm is, yes, you do file one every month.
Mr. Sanger: Now, I interrupted. We are going to come back to the CW7 in a second, and the other one as well. I interrupted you. Cal-Works is a cash payment program. And you have food stamps; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And food stamps are certificates that can be redeemed at a retail market, for instance, for food products; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And the idea is that these are given to families so that they can buy food products or use those to buy food products. Is it a complete dollar-for-dollar sort of thing, or is it a percentage off, or how does it work?
Mercy Manrriquez: No, it's a dollar for dollar.
Mr. Sanger: You get so many dollars' worth of food stamps. You can go to a food store and buy food, and those count just like dollar bills?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: The third category you told us about?
Mercy Manrriquez: Medi-Cal.
Mr. Sanger: And that's for medical care?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. If somebody is not covered by a medical insurance program?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: So if somebody is covered by a medical insurance program, the medical insurance would pick up the tab first; is that right?
Mercy Manrriquez: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then Medi-Cal will kick in if there is anything left over?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And with regard to Janet Arvizo and her family, can you tell us if she received any Cal-Works benefits?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object as vague as to time.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Let's do this. Can you tell us when Janet Arvizo started receiving benefits of any sort through your program and when she ceased receiving benefits?
Mercy Manrriquez: Okay. According to what I have here, she started receiving assistance, Cal-Works, in November of '01 and stopped in January of '03.
Mr. Sanger: That was the Cal-Works?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Did she receive any other sorts of benefits, food stamps or Medi-Cal?
Mercy Manrriquez: Medi-Cal goes hand in hand with Cal-Works, so she did receive that.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to show you exhibits that have already been admitted into evidence, these three exhibits. They're Exhibits 5100, 5102 and 5104. May I approach, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'd put them up on the board, but they'd be hard to see. So let me -- let's put this over here so we don't get mixed up, and let's just take a look at those exhibits.
Mr. Sanger: 5100, does that appear to be a benefit that's distributed through your agency?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: And what does that appear to be a check for?
Mercy Manrriquez: A check for the amount of $769 for Cal-Works.
Mr. Sanger: That's Cal-Works?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And then the 5102?
Mercy Manrriquez: Also is a check made out to Janet Arvizo for $769 for Cal-Works.
Mr. Sanger: Now, that's dated February 24, 2003, I believe; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: February 15, 2003.
Mr. Sanger: I'm sorry. We have a deposit date here, but the actual date of the check is February 15, 2003?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And, now, you indicated that your records -- the records that were brought to the court and we all looked at here just now seem to indicate she received Cal-Works through January of '03.
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Is that consistent with her receiving a check dated February 15, '03?
Mercy Manrriquez: February 15th, yes.
Mr. Sanger: In other words, the other records seem to end January '03, and here we have a February 15, '03, check.
Mercy Manrriquez: Can I go back and make sure that I have seen --
Mr. Sanger: You're welcome to do that. But so we don't waste time, if you look at the next one, 5104, it appears to be a welfare check dated in March of 2003; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: That does look like one of your Cal-Works checks?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it does.
Mr. Sanger: With that in mind, so I didn't have you do it twice, can you tell from your records if it appears that Miss Arvizo was, in fact, receiving welfare checks through March of 2003?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, through March of 2003.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, that's Cal-Works. The food stamps, do you have any ability to determine when she received food stamp assistance?
Mercy Manrriquez: She started receiving food stamps 11-15-2001.
Mr. Sanger: And when do those records show that she continued to receive the food stamps through?
Mercy Manrriquez: There's no --
Mr. Sanger: Go ahead, sorry.
Mercy Manrriquez: There's not a printout of that.
Mr. Sanger: So you can see it started, but you can't see from the records that were delivered here to court when it ended?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. The Medi-Cal would have just followed with the Cal-Works?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And so it would be your opinion that she would have had Medi-Cal for uninsured medical expenses at least through March of 2003; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: At least through March 2003.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, let me -- if I may approach and retrieve Exhibit 5106, and I'll try to put that up on the board, if that's all right.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you. I'll take the envelope and the documents and everything. There we go. Your Honor, this part will be easy. This is starting with the third page of this exhibit. I suspect it will get a little more difficult as we go along, but I'll refer to this as the Statement of Facts. It is the third page in the stack as I have it here, if that's all right. And may I publish that?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Well, we'll start with this for a second first. But I see the way this is organized, for some reason, this is the -- the current print date says 10-23-02; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: So this is the second one of those that you were talking about; is that right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So let me, now that I've figured that out, take that off and we'll come back to this in one second, and I'm going to mark that and come back to it. Now, more precisely, somewhere about a third of the way through this exhibit is something else entitled “Statement of Facts”. Is that close enough to identify it?
The Court: I think so.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
The Court: There's just two Statements of Facts in the file?
Mr. Sanger: That's correct, Your Honor. And I'm going to put the first page up.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Miss Manrriquez, it's a little hard to -- a little fuzzy there, but this apparently is -- current print date is 11-15-01, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: It says, “Worker name, Mercy Manrriquez”?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: That would be you?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Is this Statement of Facts the statement that you printed out after interviewing Janet Arvizo?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Was she asked to review it carefully and sign it if it was correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And at the end of this document, there is a certification; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And down at the bottom -- let's see if we can -- I'll leave it there. It says, in bold print, “I declare, under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of America and the State of California, that the information in this Statement of Facts is true, correct and complete”. Is that right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: And then you see what appears to be a signature there. And that would be the signature of the applicant in this case, Janet Arvizo; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And the date 11-15-01, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Now, I note that the declaration statement says, “the State of California”, because we're in the State of California, and it also says, “under the laws of the United States of America”. Are any of the funds, in part, federal funds that are used for funding these programs?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: So somebody is being asked to not only swear under the laws of California, but also the laws -- the federal laws that what they say is true and correct, correct?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Relevancy; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sanger: Is that correct, ma'am?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you. All right. Now, Question No. 47 -- I don't want to mix the pages up here, so this is a page from the middle of this Statement of Facts from 11-15. It says “11-15-2001” there. Question 47 says, “Does anyone, including children, have any personal or business-related resources?” Do you see that?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sanger: Is that one of the standard questions?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: And Miss Arvizo answered, “No”; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Miss Arvizo did not disclose to you on November 15, 2001, that on November 5, 2001, she personally had received $32,308, did she?
Mercy Manrriquez: No, she did not.
Mr. Sanger: If she had disclosed that, would that have resulted in a different answer to that question?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, it says, “Children”. Did Miss Arvizo advise you at that time that her children had also received -- one of them had received $25,000 on that same date?
Mercy Manrriquez: No.
Mr. Sanger: The other child had received, I believe it was, in excess of 10,000, off the top of my head. I don't remember. But did she disclose anything like that?
Mercy Manrriquez: No, she did not.
Mr. Sanger: Did she disclose that her ex-husband had received money from a court settlement as well?
Mercy Manrriquez: No, she did not.
Mr. Sanger: If she had disclosed that, would that have been a material fact that you would have wanted to know in evaluating whether or not she was eligible for welfare?
Mercy Manrriquez: That would have been something we needed to know.
Mr. Sanger: Now, how long back does this relate? In other words, what I just asked you about was within ten days of signing this, November 5th. How far back does this relate? Does it go back a year, two years, three years? What's the -- when a question like this is asked?
Mercy Manrriquez: As long as the participant has the resource they need to put it in no matter what the date is as to when they received it.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And is it the obligation of the applicant on the monthly eligibility reports to report any change in any of these circumstances?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: Question No. 48, “Does anyone get or expect to get money from any of the above resources, such as interest, dividends, et cetera?” If somebody had -- let's take the children. If one of the children, say, had $25,000 in a bank account that was earning interest, would it be necessary to disclose that under Question 48?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it would be necessary.
Mr. Sanger: And again, the answer there is “No”; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you relied on Mrs. Arvizo telling you that that was the answer?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to put up the next page, with the Court's permission. The next page is -- I'm going to direct your attention to Question No. 53. Now, that one says, if I may read it, “Has anyone received money from insurance or court settlements, inheritance, lottery or back pay in the last three years (36 months)?” Do you see that?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sanger: And the “anyone” would be the applicant or the children of the applicant; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Did Mrs. Arvizo disclose to you that she had just received a settlement, a court settlement, of $152,000, less attorney's fees and costs?
Mercy Manrriquez: No.
Mr. Sanger: Would that have been a material consideration on your part in determining her eligibility?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And if she, in fact, had received such a settlement, would that be fraud, to fail to disclose it on this form?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it would be.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to put up the next page, with the Court's permission. I did it before asking, I suppose, but....
The Court: That's all right.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: Look at No. 62. “Does anyone have health, dental, vision, hospitalization or long-term care insurance or health plans, such as Kaiser, Blue Cross, CHAMPUS, et cetera?” Do you see that?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sanger: Did Miss Arvizo tell you she did not have such?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct. It says, “No”.
Mr. Sanger: So if she, in fact, had health insurance, comprehensive health insurance for her children under Kaiser, would that be a false answer?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, that would be false.
Mr. Sanger: And that would also be fraud, would it not?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object to the characterization as calling for a legal conclusion.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Whatever we want to call it here, you are trying to -- I think you told us you're trying to avoid fraud?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And if we -- let's put it this way: In layman's terms, rather than describing it in legal terms, so we don't get into a legal definition of fraud, if somebody tells you something that is materially false with regard to their assets or income, and you grant them welfare based on those false statements, is that what you're referring to as fraud?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Same objection.
The Court: Overruled. The answer's in. Next question.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, in this packet, there were monthly -- I didn't see a monthly eligibility report for every month. Did you?
Mercy Manrriquez: No, I did not.
Mr. Sanger: Does that mean they don't exist, or they just didn't end up being produced here?
Mercy Manrriquez: It could mean either/or.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. If somebody continues to receive welfare of the type you described through March of 2003, you would expect them to have to fill out monthly eligibility reports, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, monthly, until I believe it was in July of 2002 we went into a quarterly reporting system.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So monthly up to July of 2002 and then it was quarterly?
Mercy Manrriquez: I believe it was July.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I'm going to turn to some of the other pages. By the way, these pages don't seem to be in chronological order, do they?
Mercy Manrriquez: I don't know.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Mercy Manrriquez: They should be.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Well, that's all right. I didn't -- let's -- I'm going to try to keep the pages together here. I'm going to go a few more pages into the materials. And these two pages are next to each other, so I'm going to ask to put these up one after the other and see if they have anything to do with anything. All right. The first page is something entitled, “Application for Cash Aid, Food Stamps, and/or Medi-Cal, State CMSP (CW1)”. Now, I heard about a CW7 earlier. The “7” is the monthly report?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So this is a CW1. What is the purpose of this?
Mercy Manrriquez: The CW1 is taken when the participant first comes in, into our office. This is the first page of their application.
Mr. Sanger: Oh, okay. So this -- in this packet, it follows that Statement of Facts, but actually this would have been part of the application?
Mercy Manrriquez: The original.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And if we look down here, it says, “I need” -- I think everybody can see it there. Here we go. Right here, it says, “I need”, and it says, “Cal-Works, immediate need payment; yes”. “Food stamp, expedited service; yes”. “Medi-Cal or are pregnant and have an immediate medical need; yes”, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And that would have been Janet Arvizo's request?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And this would be the signature of Janet Arvizo, the applicant?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: The date, 11-15-01?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And what's that? Looks like the signature of a witness?
Mercy Manrriquez: That's the signature of our -- one of our clerks that takes the application at the window.
Mr. Sanger: So the clerk is certifying that Janet Arvizo is signing this on that date; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And this particular form says that the person certifies that they got a cover sheet, and it says, “I understand and agree that I have to comply with eligibility rules, some of which I may be asked to do before any aid can be given. I understand the statements I have made on this form may be checked and verified”, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And there's another entry there. The last part before the signature says, “I declare, under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of America and the State of California, that information I have given on this form is true and correct and complete” -- “true, correct and complete”, right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: So this is signed under penalty of perjury as well. The next page in the file, and I'm quite frankly not sure if this goes directly with it or not, can you tell us what that page is?
Mercy Manrriquez: Those are the notices that have been issued to the participant, and, no, it does not go with that first page.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. It's also dated 11-15-2001, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: So this is basically a receipt that the person who is applying for welfare payments acknowledges that the following items were reviewed with her and issued to her today, on 11-15-2001, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And included in those are the cover sheet of the application for cash aid, food stamps and/or Medi-Cal, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And it says, “Cover Sheet”. Does that mean that's the whole Statement of facts?
Mercy Manrriquez: No. That's the cover sheet. There is a cover sheet that goes on it.
Mr. Sanger: And is this issued before they sign the Statement of Facts?
Mercy Manrriquez: It's issued after.
Mr. Sanger: After. Is there reference to the Statement of Facts here in all these code numbers?
Mercy Manrriquez: The reference would be both on the SAWS 1 and SAWS 2A. They would give them all their responsibilities.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So the idea that you're signing under penalty of perjury and telling the Department of Public Social Services that what you're saying is the truth is covered by one or more of these forms; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
The Court: All right. We'll take our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Sanger: May I proceed?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, we had on the board a page that we've been talking about, which, for the purpose of the record, is the best way to put it. And I want to put it back up on the board.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: Now, this was the page that -- you were just telling us about this page, and down at the bottom there, it has “Client's Signature”. Would that be Janet Arvizo's signature?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it would.
Mr. Sanger: And that's dated 11-15-2001. That would have been the date that she signed that?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And it says, “Copy to client”. So the client, that being Janet Arvizo, would have gotten a copy of this as well; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Now I'm going to put up the next page in order in the exhibit, 5106. Looking at the top part, did this have something to do with the application of Janet Arvizo on 11-15-01?
Mercy Manrriquez: That's what they use to clear her name, and if she had a previous record, case, with the county.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So when you're -- it's like running a records check; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes. That's our Medi-Cal system that that form is from.
Mr. Sanger: And the date is 11-15-01, so that would have been when that was done?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: I see some handwriting on the bottom. Is that your handwriting?
Mercy Manrriquez: No, it's not.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. What would be the purpose of this type of a note in the file?
Mercy Manrriquez: That -- you know, we don't have a screener. The intake worker that was interviewing her before me would have taken notes down. And once it became aware to that intake worker that it was a domestic violence, and then she referred her to me.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. That's interesting. You can turn around a bit, it will make it easier, and I'll ask you about that in a minute. Turn around this way, and that will make it easier to talk into the microphone. You said the case was referred to you because it was domestic violence?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Do you have some particular role there with regard to domestic violence cases?
Mercy Manrriquez: I was the intake domestic violence worker.
Mr. Sanger: So when Janet Arvizo first came in, she talked to another intake worker; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And that intake worker would have gone over the same questions; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Not on the application.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Mercy Manrriquez: Which does a screening first to see what the participant needs.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So a preliminary kind of screening?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then when it was determined who should get the final screening, it was sent to you to do the final screening?
Mercy Manrriquez: The final intake.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, the intake worker -- and now you can turn around, if you like, and take a look. The intake worker made a note here, and this says, looks like, “Mother and three children, all U.S. born”, and then it indicates, “Gavin has cancer. Advised mother to apply for SSI”. Would that be an ordinary kind of a note?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And that would be the course of action that an intake worker might pursue; is that right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: So in addition to the benefits that are being sought through your office, Janet Arvizo was advised that she could apply for benefits through the federal government through SSI; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And that's a program under Social Security, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: It also indicates - and I'm going to lengthen the abbreviations, unless I'm wrong, so tell me - “Month last worked was 10-31-01 due to surgery on her foot”; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then it says, “On DIB”. I guess disability?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: $104 a week for disability that she was getting?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Now, it says, “No bank accounts. No cars”.
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Does that reflect, in the ordinary course of business in your department, that somebody would have asked her, “Do you have any bank accounts?”
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, we did.
Mr. Sanger: And any cars?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you not only ask for cars, but you ask for access or use of a vehicle; is that right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And according to this, there was no bank accounts and no use of a vehicle?
Mercy Manrriquez: Well, the “no cars” would be that she was -- does not own a vehicle.
Mr. Sanger: Fair enough. And “no bank accounts” would be no bank accounts, right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And then it says -- what's the abbreviation down there?
Mercy Manrriquez: It says, “Part”. Participant.
Mr. Sanger: Participant, okay. “Participant also applying for divorce due to domestic violence”, “DV”?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: So this would have been information coming from Janet Arvizo to that first worker; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And when you got the file, then, you would have looked at that note in the file?
Mercy Manrriquez: Right.
Mr. Sanger: And in fact, that's the reason it was sent to you particularly, because it was a DV case, domestic violence case?
Mercy Manrriquez: Right.
Mr. Sanger: All right. The next -- ask leave to put up the next piece of paper in order, if I may.
The Court: You may.
Mr. Sanger: And this is another piece of paper. It says “Emergency” on the side there. Whose handwriting is that; do you know?
Mercy Manrriquez: No, I don't.
Mr. Sanger: Would that be the applicant's handwriting?
Mercy Manrriquez: No, I believe it would be one of our clerks.
Mr. Sanger: So it would probably be an intake worker of some sort?
Mercy Manrriquez: No, one of our clerks, the receptionist.
Mr. Sanger: So this would be the very first page, the very first piece of paper in the process?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And it shows the applicant as applying for various benefits, and it says, “Are you in need of emergency?” I think that's what it says. “Are you in need of emergency”?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: By that we mean emergency benefits, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then down here it says, “Domestic abuse, child and spousal”, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And this is based on information that would have been obtained from Janet Arvizo herself?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: An emergency -- an emergency request, as noted up here on the end, is that noted for some reason in your department?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, in order to expedite services to that participant.
Mr. Sanger: And why do you -- I mean, it may be obvious, but explain why you have a process to expedite services.
Mercy Manrriquez: One might be the family's in danger. We don't want to put the children in -- and, you know, the woman back in there.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And so they need to have money right away so they can go someplace to be safe?
Mercy Manrriquez: Well, not always cash, but we can locate a shelter.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And so when you say “emergency”, it means, “We need” -- “We're just not going to put this in the system and go through the normal process; we're going to pay special attention to your case”?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I'm going to put up 5099, if I may. That's been received.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sanger: If you were aware -- you haven't seen this before, but this is admitted into evidence. If you were aware that Janet Arvizo personally, in addition to what her children got, had received a check for $32,000, $32,308, and that she had -- it's dated on November 2nd -- that she had actually deposited it in her bank on November 5th, 2001, would that have affected your decision as to whether or not this was an emergency case?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it would.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, you mentioned that there was a need to fill out a monthly application form, or a monthly -- I'm sorry, what do we call it? It was a monthly form to show that there were no changes; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Sorry, Your Honor, excuse me just one second.
Mr. Sanger: I may be wrong, but I'm not sure that I find all the monthly eligibility reports in here. Did you see a set for monthly and then quarterly?
Mercy Manrriquez: I didn't see a set. I believe I saw one.
Mr. Sanger: Yeah. With the Court's permission, I'll put this up.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sanger: And this, for the record, is from 5106 and it's a page somewhere in the middle. I'll put it back in the same order. Now, this particular form -- this is the monthly eligibility report that you would expect to be filled out by applicants each month to be entitled to welfare assistance the next month; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Skipping down to the bottom, this one is dated 1-10-03, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. It appears, it says here, “Received January 9, '03”. And then it says, upside down, “SCU scanned”. What does that mean?
Mercy Manrriquez: We have clerks that scan the reports as they come in.
Mr. Sanger: Is it possible that these other reports are scanned in the system somewhere and they just didn't make it to the court documents?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: In fact, you would expect that, if somebody received --
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: If somebody received assistance the entire time, you would expect to have these every month?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes. If not, their case would be terminated.
Mr. Sanger: This is really hard to read, so -- I'm going to try to make it harder. I'll make it a little easier there. This question, No. 3, is that a standard question on all of these monthly eligibility reports?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And what's the purpose of Question No. 3?
Mercy Manrriquez: It's to determine eligibility.
Mr. Sanger: And in essence, you want to find out if, during the last month or since the last report, there has been any change, people have come up with some money from some source; is that right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And it says, “Did anyone receive money or benefits from any other source?” All right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And it says, “Include child, spousal support, interest or dividends”. Now, that would pertain to interest or dividends on accounts that were held in the name of children; is that right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: I'll skip over here. “Legal settlements, strike benefits”. Cash is included; is that right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And it wouldn't matter whether it was cash in greenbacks, as they say, or if it was a cashier's check; is that right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Or a regular check, right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Gifts? So a gift would count, right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Loans? If somebody said, “Well, I'm going to loan it to the person. If they can pay it back, fine, and if they can't, it's okay”, it would still go in there, right?
Mercy Manrriquez: It would still go in the record.
Mr. Sanger: There's a number of other things here. Basically that's intended to describe what you mean by “Anyone receive money or benefits from any other source”, right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, on 1-10-03, it appears that this applicant said, “No change”, and checked the box “No” there; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: There is a second page to this form, is there not?
Mercy Manrriquez: The reverse side.
Mr. Sanger: Should be on the other side? Ahh. Yes, there is. How about that? And on this form Question 7, it says, “Did anyone move in or out of your home, or did you move in with someone else?” Correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And if somebody had moved in with their boyfriend and were living there, you would want to know about it?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: What if somebody was just living there about half the time. Would you still want to know about it?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And this person said, “No”. Is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes. That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And then, just in case, it's hard to make it fit yet be able to read it. But in this particular case, it says, “Does anyone have anything else to report, including expected changes, et cetera?” Right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: So you're really telling them, “Look, be honest with us. Tell us what's going on in your life”, right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then this form was signed by Janet Arvizo on 1-1-03; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And was that form relied upon by your office for the purpose of disseminating welfare benefits?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you saw some of these checks that I showed you, I think three checks there, from January, February and March of 2003, the last one being March 17, 2003. Were those checks, based on, in at least one case, this particular form, and in all cases on filing a similar form?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: Now, if somebody received $600 in cash at Christmas because they said they really needed money and a nice person said, “Here, I'm going to give you $600”, is that something that should have been reported on such a form?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Would that affect eligibility?
Mercy Manrriquez: It could affect eligibility.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. In February of 2003. Now we have a March 17, 2003, check showing welfare was still being received. If a person received a check in the amount of -- I'm sorry, either check or cash in the amount of $2,000 on February 20th, is that something they should have reported to welfare?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: If a person were receiving several thousand dollars for their living expenses from various sources, from a corporation and from an individual, during a period of time from February to early March, is that something that should have been reported by the person before accepting a March 17 welfare check?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: With the Court's permission, I'll put up the next page in order.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Oh, before I do that, let's assume somebody receives a windfall. They get a lot of money and they got their February check and they know they got all this money. They don't report it for some reason, and they get their March 17 check. Is it proper for them to keep that check?
Mercy Manrriquez: It all depends when they received this amount of money.
Mr. Sanger: If they received the -- let's say they received the amount of money between -- during the month of February and then they go ahead and get a check March 17, and deposit it or cash it sometime later in the month. Is that appropriate or should they refuse to cash it?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object as vague as to the term “appropriate” or “proper”.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mercy Manrriquez: They should report it. And if they received it in January, it would affect their March.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Would February affect their March?
Mercy Manrriquez: We would consider it as a resource and we would have to do a work sheet on it. Yes, it would.
Mr. Sanger: So before they are really entitled to a March 17 check, you'd theoretically want to know about what money they received in February?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And welfare -- recipients of -- people who are receiving these benefits from the government are advised, are they not, that they have to report any significant changes in their situation?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to now, if I may, put up the next page.
Mr. Sanger: First of all, who is Pamela Adkins?
Mercy Manrriquez: I believe she's another worker at the Lincoln Heights office.
Mr. Sanger: So we have, “Attention: Pamela Adkins” with a little heart over the “i” there. So this is a note to somebody in your office; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And the fax number, is that a fax number you're familiar with?
Mercy Manrriquez: That's a fax number to Lincoln Heights.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I'm not sure -- let me just see, here. Don't -- just -- if I may, let me put it up and see if you can read it there. Otherwise I'll bring it up to you. Can you tell what the fax date on this is?
Mercy Manrriquez: No.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. May I approach the witness?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Of course now you're sitting in the dark, which is apparently my fault here. But can you see that?
Mercy Manrriquez: I can see partially.
Mr. Sanger: If I may just ask the question up here, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Can you tell me what date that was faxed?
Mercy Manrriquez: It appears to be March 3rd, 2003.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Very well. Now I'm going to put this up again. And it says, “I, Janet Arvizo, chooses to discontinue and be off of the welfare system aid effective today, 3-3. Thank you so much, Janet Arvizo”. Do you see that?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sanger: Do you often receive letters like this?
Mercy Manrriquez: We do receive.
Mr. Sanger: So people tell you that circumstances have changed and they're no longer going to be on welfare?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: After this was sent, apparently this check of March 17 was cut and eventually sent to Janet Arvizo. Why would that be?
Mercy Manrriquez: Because we have a cut-off date. If they wanted their aid terminated the beginning of March, that would be for the end of February they would give us notice. But this seems that she did this in March, and everything was already mailed out to be batched out.
Mr. Sanger: So the check was in the pipeline one way or another?
Mercy Manrriquez: Right.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, if this person who wrote this, Janet Arvizo, had, in fact, during the month of March, between -- I'm sorry, let me withdraw that. During the month of February of 2003, if Janet Arvizo had received several thousand dollars in gifts, spa treatments, trips to Miami, private jet flights, lodging, food, if she had received that sort of thing during the month of February, should she have reported that to the welfare department?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, if Janet Arvizo had, in fact, been living with her boyfriend, a major in the United States Army, who was paying her expenses and depositing her welfare checks in his bank account, should she have reported that?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object as compound and assumes facts not in evidence, improper hypothetical.
Mr. Sanger: I'll break it down, if you like.
The Court: The objection is sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Let's take it one at a time. If a person were -- I think I asked you this part already, but let me just be sure. If a person were residing -- a welfare applicant or participant were residing with her boyfriend in his apartment, is that something that should have been reported to the welfare department before accepting checks?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: If that person, in this case Janet Arvizo, were in fact depositing her welfare checks into her boyfriend's bank account, is that something that should have been reported?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: If the boyfriend were a major in the United States Army, with a base pay, exclusive of allowances, a base pay of over $5,000, is that something that should have been reported to the welfare department?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: If the boyfriend, the major in the United States Army, were, in fact, paying expenses for Janet Arvizo, is that something that should be reported?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Would each of those factors have an impact on the eligibility of that person to receive welfare?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And I'll ask you to assume, for the moment, that those facts are true that I just recited with regard to the boyfriend. Janet Arvizo was living there. He was a major in the United States Army. He was depositing her checks and he was paying some of the expenses, and his income was $5,000 -- more than $5,000 per month base pay. Would that cause her to be ineligible for the type of welfare that you see in this file?
Mercy Manrriquez: No.
Mr. Sanger: So she would still be able to get all this welfare?
Mercy Manrriquez: Not “all”.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. How would it affect her welfare?
Mercy Manrriquez: We would determine what the cost -- what he's paying, and we would include it as in-kind, and we would deduct that from the amount of her grant. If he's purchasing -- and they're purchasing and preparing their food together, their whole income has to be counted as one.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So you would have to do a calculation to see if she'd still be entitled to welfare?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Now, if he had an automobile and she had the use of the automobile, is that something that you would want to have reported?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object. Assumes facts not in evidence.
Mr. Sanger: The testimony of Mrs. Arvizo.
The Court: The objection is overruled.
Mr. Sanger: Is that something you would want to know?
Mercy Manrriquez: If the vehicle's not in her name, it would not be counted towards her grant.
Mr. Sanger: So there's a question on the original form about having the use of a vehicle. Is that something you do not have to disclose in the monthly updates?
Mercy Manrriquez: Not on a monthly update.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, if somebody is receiving more welfare than they're entitled to, is that a concern that you have?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: And you had mentioned in your lay version of fraud -- I'm not asking for a legal opinion, but you said you were trying to avoid fraud. Is that fraud that you're trying to avoid?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now I'm going to refer -- if I may, Your Honor, this is the one I put up first, the Statement of Facts, which turns out to be chronologically second. I wanted to make sure everything was in the same order.
Mr. Sanger: Taking a look at this, this says -- this is a Statement of Facts, and it says, “Current print date 10-23-02”, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And I think we covered before that it says, “For application dated 11-15-01”; is that right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: So the next year, this is the one where Miss Arvizo came back and talked to Pamela Adkins in your office; is that right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And we go through the same questions here as of 10-23-02 that we covered in the other form. The form remains the same. It didn't change; is that right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And there remains the question, for instance, No. 53, which I'll now put up with the Court's permission: “Has anyone received money from insurance or court settlements, inheritance, lottery or back pay in the last three years?” Correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: So once again, that same settlement -- if a settlement were received for $152,000 November 5th, 2001, that should have been disclosed in response to that question even a year later, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And if the children of the applicant still had bank accounts that had money in them, is that something that should have been disclosed in this form?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And it appears that it was not disclosed in this form; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And I'm going to put the last page on, if I may, Your Honor.
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And this is the signature page, once again showing under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of America and the State of California; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And it appears that Janet Arvizo signed this form on 10-23-02?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And the -- besides the monthly and later quarterly updates -- I always forget the name of that. Whatever they're called, the monthly eligibility reports. In addition to that, the department, your department, relies on these Statement of Facts, these annual Statement of Facts in order to award welfare?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I'm going to put -- actually, this part of it being a little bit out of order here, there are a number of documents that you use -- or let me withdraw that. There are a number of documents generated when there's a claim of domestic violence; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Do the applicants always bring in their police reports and divorce papers?
Mercy Manrriquez: No, not always.
Mr. Sanger: In this case, do you know if Mrs. Arvizo brought in papers?
Mercy Manrriquez: I believe she did.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And back in 2001 -- I apologize for the lack of sequence here, but I just discovered these. Back in 2001, did Janet Arvizo indicate that she did not want to go to a shelter?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And you gave her a form that gave information about domestic violence information -- I'm sorry, that's redundant. You gave her a form entitled, “Confidential Domestic Violence Information”; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And that told her about her -- the sorts of things that she could avail herself of in addition to the actual money that you were dispensing; is that right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I think I'm almost through here, Your Honor. Just one more moment.
Mr. Sanger: Did it appear at some point that you realized -- I'm sorry. Did it appear at some point from this file that your department became aware that Janet Arvizo was receiving other assistance? Do you want to look at the file so --
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: You don't know without looking?
Mercy Manrriquez: No, I would not.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I'm going to approach with these three pages of the exhibit. I've just handed you three pages that appear to apply to other benefits other than the DPSS benefits; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And what does that show?
Mercy Manrriquez: That she was entitled to receive -- that she did receive disability benefits.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So is that something that -- a check that you run through your computer somehow?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes. There's a match.
Mr. Sanger: May I approach and exchange documents? This one for that one.
Mr. Sanger: This is a document I've located in your file. It appears to be a rent receipt, and it's in the Janet Arvizo file from your department. Why would that be in there?
Mercy Manrriquez: It's to -- we use a rent amount in order to calculate her food stamp allotment.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And that shows that Raymond Trujillo was getting 400-and-some dollars a month; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: So in the course of calculating her food stamp allowance, you were assuming that she was actually paying rent in October of 2002 of 400-and-some dollars a month; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: If you were aware that the landlord had allowed her to stay in that apartment rent free for a period of time, would that have been something that should have been reported to you? Let me withdraw that, because that question made no sense, if you're aware of it. Let me put it this way: If a person presenting a rent receipt like that in fact had been given free rent for a period of time by her landlord, is that something that should have been reported to you?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And if, in fact, in 2003, in January and February, somebody else was paying that rent, that $425 a month, is that something that should have been reported to the department?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. If I may retrieve that so I can put it back in the same place here. Okay. I have no further questions of this witness at this time.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Good afternoon, Miss Manrriquez.
Mercy Manrriquez: Good afternoon.
Mr. Auchincloss: Tell me, why is there a domestic violence unit in the welfare department?
Mercy Manrriquez: We have a domestic violence worker, and the reason is that we want to make sure that we take care of those people. We don't want to put them in any danger. We want to take them out of that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do they have special needs that need to be addressed in the welfare system that are different from your average recipient of welfare?
Mercy Manrriquez: Their safety.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And when you spoke to Janet Arvizo back in 2001, did she express concern for her safety in regards to her domestic violence situation?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, she did.
Mr. Auchincloss: In what way did she express her concern for her safety?
Mercy Manrriquez: That she was afraid to go back home.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. In fact, did she ask for an escort from the welfare department to accompany her to her home to make sure she was safe?
Mercy Manrriquez: We don't escort our participants.
Mr. Auchincloss: But isn't there a request in the file from her to obtain an escort --
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, there is.
Mr. Auchincloss: -- to transfer her home, to help her get home safely?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, in your reports, your official reports indicate that she was receiving welfare, food stamps and Medi-Cal; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: And the Medi-Cal covers insurance, health insurance, over and above an individual's needs that are covered by their own insurance; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: So if a person has their own insurance, that doesn't exclude them from Medi-Cal?
Mercy Manrriquez: Does not exclude them.
Mr. Auchincloss: So if Janet Arvizo had insurance coverage, that wouldn't prevent her from getting these benefits?
Mercy Manrriquez: No, it would not.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know if she received any Medi-Cal benefits?
Mercy Manrriquez: Medi-Cal goes hand in hand with Cal-Works.
Mr. Auchincloss: But if she actually received any insurance proceeds from Medi-Cal, do you know if any --
Mercy Manrriquez: I don't know.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And as far as her -- as far as her receiving disability, counsel asked you a few questions about that, that she received some disability benefits; is that right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And were those disability benefits for a time when she was unable to work because she had to have surgery?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it is.
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Well, calls for speculation.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, is that reflected -- I'll let the Court rule.
The Court: What you're asking her is if that's on the application?
Mr. Auchincloss: Yes.
The Court: Rephrase your question.
Mr. Auchincloss: The question, really, I have is based upon your records. Is it reflected that Janet Arvizo had to have some surgery, and that's why she went on disability for a period of time?
Mercy Manrriquez: It's noted at the intake.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And that was for a limited period of time while she was going through her medical procedures?
Mercy Manrriquez: I believe so.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. In your experience, how diligent are welfare recipients, if you can characterize, about these details concerning reporting gifts, reporting if someone lets them use their car, that kind of thing? How --
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Compound; vague; and not relevant.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you often find that at Christmastime people come rushing down to the welfare office to report their Christmas gifts?
Mr. Sanger: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: When did the quarterly notices go into effect?
Mercy Manrriquez: Quarterly notices, I believe -- I want to say July of 2004. I thought it was '3, but it may be 2004. We just went in -- Cal-Works --
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Mercy Manrriquez: -- just went into quarterly reports.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you say before it was 2003?
Mercy Manrriquez: I did. But I believe it's 2004.
Mr. Auchincloss: Are you sure?
Mercy Manrriquez: I'm not positive.
Mr. Auchincloss: Is it possible that it was in effect in 2003, based on your recollections?
Mercy Manrriquez: It may have been. But like I say, I'm not positive.
Mr. Auchincloss: If a mother sets up a trust account for their child, based upon proceeds from a personal injury case, and this trust account cannot be touched by the mother or by the child until that time -- the time that the child reaches maturity, 18 years old, would that affect a person's right to receive welfare?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Improper hypothetical. It assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Can you tell me if funds placed in trust for a child, let's say by a lawyer, that the child cannot receive, would that affect -- would those funds placed in trust that the child cannot touch, would that affect their eligibility for welfare?
Mr. Sanger: Objection; assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Overruled.
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it would.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And if the funds cannot be used for current needs, why would that limit eligibility for welfare?
Mercy Manrriquez: They would have to actually bring in a statement saying that they cannot touch it, but even if they were to be penalized for withdrawing that money.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm saying they can't withdraw the money even with penalty. It cannot be withdrawn. It's untouchable.
Mr. Sanger: I object. This calls for speculation; it's an improper hypothetical; assumes facts not in evidence.
Mr. Auchincloss: I believe counsel's asked numerous questions about interest on these accounts.
The Court: Sustained.
Mercy Manrriquez: I believe it still would have --
The Court: Just a minute. He has to ask another question.
Mercy Manrriquez: Oh, I'm sorry, sir.
Mr. Auchincloss: If a child is going to receive benefits at 18 that he cannot receive before that time, regardless of the benefit, okay? It's an item that the child cannot receive. The child is, let's say, a teenager. Would that affect eligibility for welfare?
Mr. Sanger: Well, again, improper hypothetical; assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. If a welfare recipient does not have a bank account of their own, and they allow a friend to cash that check for them, and then they obtain those welfare benefits from that friend, is that a violation of the rules of receiving welfare?
Mercy Manrriquez: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So if an individual has a boyfriend and she uses his account to simply cash the check, and then she receives those funds, that's not a violation?
Mercy Manrriquez: That's not.
Mr. Auchincloss: What about if she uses those funds to be deposited into his account and then he, in turn, writes a check, for instance, to her landlord. In other words, using the funds for the benefit intended, but it's just run through the paperwork in that fashion. Is that a violation? Do you understand the question?
Mercy Manrriquez: I believe I do understand, and he's the one -- we, in our department, would say he is the one paying the bills.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. But if -- let's say the boyfriend simply writes the check to the landlord. She gives him $450 from her welfare. He writes a check to the landlord -- for $450 to the landlord. Is that a problem?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes, it would be.
Mr. Auchincloss: And why would that be?
Mercy Manrriquez: We are now looking that he's making out the check. He's paying it.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Mercy Manrriquez: He's the one that's paying the rent.
Mr. Auchincloss: Even though the benefit to the welfare recipient is the same?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would that term be something more technical in nature?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And as far as receiving, let's say, a trip to Miami, suppose someone takes you to Miami, pays for your plane fare to Miami, allows you to stay, at their expense, at a hotel for a couple of days, and then you fly back, all at the expense of this friend. Is that something that's going to affect your eligibility for welfare?
Mercy Manrriquez: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Thank you. I have no further questions.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Let's just pick up where we left off.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: If during the month of February, let us say, somebody not only takes the trip to Miami, has all expenses paid, including food, but during this same period of time they then return and stay, all expenses paid, somewhere during the entire month, including another luxury hotel for a period of time, including a beautiful home that belongs to a major celebrity. The whole month, in essence, they're taken care of. Is that something that needs to be reported?
Mercy Manrriquez: If it's over 30 days that they're out of their home, they need to report that.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So if it was from February 6th to March the 12th, where either the children or the parent, or both of them, were out of the home, living all expenses paid on somebody else's nickel, is that something that should have been reported?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Compound; assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: You're basically looking to find out if this is somebody who, month to month, has a need for welfare, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, I posed several hypotheticals to you. And I want to avoid doing them all again, but we had a number of expenses that were paid that we talked about being paid that include not only lodging, but food, purchase of gifts, spa treatments, full body waxes, cosmetics. If somebody was receiving that kind of a treatment for a month, is that the sort of person who should also be receiving a check from the government for welfare?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Vague, compound and assumes facts not in evidence. I'll throw in argumentative, too.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Do you want to have accurate information on your monthly reports so that you can evaluate who's really entitled to welfare in this state when you're doing the job as an eligibility worker?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Asked and answered; beyond the scope.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sanger: I'm sorry, did you rule, Your Honor?
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you. And the answer came in?
The Court: I believe so.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, I'd like to put up 5098. 5099 first, if I may.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object as beyond the scope.
The Court: Overruled. Go ahead.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I think I showed you this check for $32,307.88, something like that, and asked you about this previously. The District Attorney asked you about some kind of trust account. If Janet Arvizo, in fact, had access to this money, no matter whose name the account was in, is that something that should have been reported on her initial form on 11-15-01?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And I'll put up 5098, if I may. This has been received into evidence that there was, in fact, a cashier's check to Hollywood Ford, but there's no indication as to who actually got the proceeds from this check. However, it was withdrawn shortly after the money was deposited in Miss Arvizo's account and it was withdrawn by Miss Arvizo herself. Is that the kind of financial transaction that you would want to know about days before deciding whether or not she's entitled to welfare?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I believe -- it's hard to see, and I apologize. I believe that's November 9th. I think that's what it says up there. Now, those -- if somebody has access to funds and uses the funds, it doesn't matter what the name of the account is, does it?
Mercy Manrriquez: As long as they're a household member.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So now we'll move on to -- there's one question to which there was not an objection sustained that had to do with a trust account. If the children of Miss Arvizo, Star and Gavin, received between them in excess of $40,000 at this same time that you just saw these transactions for Janet Arvizo herself, if they received an additional $40,000, whether --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object to the amount. Misstates the evidence.
The Court: Go ahead. Complete your question.
Mr. Sanger: Well, let's do it -- just so -- I believe that's correct, but let me just put it this way.
Mr. Sanger: If one child received in excess of 25,000 and the other child received in excess of $10,000 at the same time that this transaction occurred when Mrs. Arvizo received her $32,000, and that money was put in any kind of a bank account for their benefit, is that something that was required to be disclosed to your department on these forms?
Mercy Manrriquez: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, the District Attorney in that question about a trust account -- does it matter whether it's a trust account or not a trust account, if they received the money for their benefit?
Mercy Manrriquez: No, it should be reported.
Mr. Sanger: And if it's reported and there's some argument about it, you would want to see all the documentation about that account; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: But the form clearly says you have to report any money in bank accounts for any of the people in the family; is that right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. There were questions about the boyfriend paying the rent, and I got lost on some of that, but basically one of the concerns that you have in your department is that participants will receive benefits, let us say, and at some point their circumstances change and they start living with someone else who starts providing for their basic needs, and you need to know about that; is that correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And it's not uncommon that people will move in with a boyfriend or a girlfriend, and that boyfriend or girlfriend will start paying for things that the participant previously had to pay for out of his or her own pocket, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And part of your screening process for each month's eligibility is to determine whether or not that has occurred, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And if you aren't told about it, you don't have an ability to evaluate it; is that right?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you believe that it's -- that it's part of the reporting requirement that a person who moves in with a boyfriend, and the boyfriend is not only cashing the welfare checks, but also paying rent and paying other expenses on behalf of the participant, that that participant has an obligation to report that so you can evaluate it, correct?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; asked and answered.
The Court: Compound. Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: It wasn't asked and answered? If it wasn't, I won't ask any more questions.
The Court: Okay. Asked and answered.
Mr. Sanger: There you go. Okay. I have no further questions.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Just real quickly, clearly if Mrs. Arvizo received a $30,000 settlement, that should have been reported and mentioned to welfare; isn't that fair to say?
Mercy Manrriquez: Correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: The only question that I have remaining is not whether or not the reporting of funds placed in a trust account for children should have taken place. My question is, provided that children -- the children in the family received those funds, they were placed in trust, and they cannot be touched until the children became adults, that wouldn't affect the eligibility for welfare, would it, just as far as eligibility goes?
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Improper hypothetical; assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: I believe there are a couple of exhibits that are in evidence, 820 and 824, dealing with the trust.
The Court: Let's see. I don't have those up here.
Mr. Auchincloss: I can tell you my foundation based on -- at sidebar if you want.
The Court: I'll look at your exhibit.
Mr. Auchincloss: 821 and 820.
The Court: The problem that I'm having with your hypothetical is that the.... See, the problem in the exhibits is that under these compromises for minors, the Court can always authorize the release of funds. So, every question you've asked, with the exception of one, presupposed that the minor couldn't get to the funds. And it's just not the law. The law is that the Court can give access to the funds. That's what the document says. So let's go to our next question.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. I have no further questions then. Thank you.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sanger: Nor do I.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down.
Mercy Manrriquez: You're welcome.
The Court: Call your next witness, please.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor. The defense will call Miss Marian Arvizo.
The Court: When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing. Face the clerk here and raise your right hand.
Message: MARIAN ARVIZO Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Marian Arvizo: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Marian Arvizo: My name is Marian Arvizo. Spelled M-a-r-i-a-n; Arvizo, A-r-v-i-z-o.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good afternoon, Miss Arvizo.
Marian Arvizo: Good afternoon.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Arvizo, are you related to David Arvizo?
Marian Arvizo: Yes, I am.
Mr. Mesereau: How are you related to him?
Marian Arvizo: I'm his sister.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you live in the Los Angeles area?
Marian Arvizo: I do.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know Janet Arvizo?
Marian Arvizo: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: And how do you know her?
Marian Arvizo: She was married to my brother David Arvizo.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when did you first meet Janet Arvizo, just approximately?
Marian Arvizo: About 19 -- about 18, 19 years ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you stay in contact with her through the years?
Marian Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you at some point learn that Gavin Arvizo was ill?
Marian Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you learn that?
Marian Arvizo: Through fellow neighbors in the neighborhood that I live in, that my family lived in, in South El Monte.
Mr. Mesereau: This is El Monte?
Marian Arvizo: In South El Monte.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, at this point in time, when you learned that Gavin was ill, were Janet and David still together?
Marian Arvizo: Yes, they were.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you visit Gavin at the hospital?
Marian Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you get involved in any efforts to do any drives for Gavin?
Marian Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you do?
Marian Arvizo: I organized a blood drive that was held at the Von's warehouse in El Monte.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, approximately when did you start organizing the blood drive for Gavin?
Marian Arvizo: I don't remember the dates and times. It was probably maybe -- it was at the time where he was needing -- he was needing blood transfusions pretty frequently. And what happened was, is that the news had put out that they needed blood for him --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Marian Arvizo: -- because --
Mr. Mesereau: Let me just ask one question at a time, if I can. Thank you. You say that the news had put out information that there was a need for blood for Gavin?
Marian Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you hear that on the news?
Marian Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: So you were not talking to Janet when you learned that?
Marian Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you learn there was a particular type of blood that he needed?
Marian Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how did you learn that?
Marian Arvizo: On the news.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What did you do after you learned that information on the news?
Marian Arvizo: I -- I started to see if I can organize a blood drive to get more of the blood type that he needed, because it was a rare blood type.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you do to organize the drive?
Marian Arvizo: I had a -- I knew of a woman that worked at Kaiser, who was in charge, by the name of Marie Triggs. And I talked to her and asked her how would I go about organizing a blood drive to help them out to make sure he had enough blood.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you learn from her what to do?
Marian Arvizo: Yes. She did help me to organize the blood drives.
Mr. Mesereau: And Kaiser was the hospital that Gavin was -- the hospital that Gavin was being treated at?
Marian Arvizo: Yes, she was -- he was.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you do to put a blood drive together?
Marian Arvizo: We talked to one of the supervisors at the Von's warehouse, and he opened up the warehouse for us to come in and have the guys donate blood. And Marie Triggs and I met there, and we went into the warehouse and set up in the break room and did a small blood drive there with all -- I don't remember how many units of blood she got that day, but there was quite a few people that donated.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, why did you choose Von's to do the drive?
Marian Arvizo: I'm also an employee for Von's, and I had heard through several people that there was a lot of guys at the warehouse that were interested in donating blood.
Mr. Mesereau: You say you're also an employee of Von's. What did you mean by that? Who else are you referring to that was employed there?
Marian Arvizo: My brother, David.
Mr. Mesereau: That's David?
Marian Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And so you both were working at Von's at the same time?
Marian Arvizo: He works in the warehouse now and I work in the stores.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And was David working at this point in time at Von's; do you know?
Marian Arvizo: No, I believe he was out.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was he out to visit David (sic) at the hospital?
Marian Arvizo: I believe he was still with Gavin and going through his -- the chemo and all the --
Mr. Mesereau: Right.
Marian Arvizo: -- at the hospital.
Mr. Mesereau: So you had a blood drive, right?
Marian Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: At Von's?
Marian Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately how many people do you think came to the blood drive?
Marian Arvizo: I would say maybe 25 or 30.
Mr. Mesereau: Were they mostly people from Von's?
Marian Arvizo: They were all the guys in the warehouse.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you actually obtain blood for Gavin?
Marian Arvizo: Yes, we did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you do more than one blood drive?
Marian Arvizo: Yes. We did -- also did a second blood drive. One of my sisters, her sister-in-law's church donated the church recreational room. And Marie Triggs, my sister Karen and myself, we all met down at the church and we had a small blood drive there. It was just announced at the church, so we mostly had -- mostly had church members that came in to donate.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did you communicate with Janet Arvizo about the blood drives you were organizing?
Marian Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever talk to her at all about it?
Marian Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did she ever contact you about a blood drive?
Marian Arvizo: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was this, do you think?
Marian Arvizo: I don't remember a certain day and time.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you remember whether or not she wanted to participate in the drive?
Marian Arvizo: She didn't seem to want to participate. She -- I didn't talk to her before the blood drives. I talked to her -- I talked to her before the blood drives, not while I was doing the blood drives.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you offer her the opportunity to get involved?
Marian Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you offer the opportunity to give her views about whether this was a good idea?
Marian Arvizo: Well, there was a letter that went in the City of South El Monte that had information on our family, because we had been in the city for so many years, and that letter actually just said if you are willing to donate blood for Gavin, and gave a specific blood type, that to donate it at the Kaiser on Sunset, and just thanking -- you know, “On behalf of the entire Arvizo family, we thank you”. And Janet did call me on that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Janet ever complain to you about the blood drive?
Marian Arvizo: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: What did she say?
Marian Arvizo: She told me that she didn't need my fucking blood. That she needed money.
Mr. Mesereau: And did she call you on the phone when she said that?
Marian Arvizo: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: Are you okay?
Marian Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What was your response, if any?
Marian Arvizo: I think I just hung up on her.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever talk to her again about the blood drive?
Marian Arvizo: No, I don't believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: How many drives do you think you organized for Gavin?
Marian Arvizo: There was two blood drives.
Mr. Mesereau: The second one was at the church?
Marian Arvizo: The second one was at the church.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, after David and Janet separated, do you recall an incident where Gavin, Star and Davellin were swimming?
Marian Arvizo: Yes, they came over to my house and went swimming.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, was this long after the separation; do you know?
Marian Arvizo: No. It was just in the beginning of the separation.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And they went swimming at your house?
Marian Arvizo: Yes, they did.
Mr. Mesereau: And this was in El Monte?
Marian Arvizo: This is in Covina.
Mr. Mesereau: Covina, okay. All right. And do you recall Star -- whether or not Star ever made a comment about a house they were going to move to?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn from Star that the family might move to the Hollywood Hills?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever say anything to Star Arvizo about the family's moving to the Hollywood Hills?
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, the third objection. Hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Ask for an admonition.
The Court: Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll move on. I'll move on, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you had any contact with Janet since the conversation you just described?
Marian Arvizo: No, I haven't.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Have had you had any contact with any of the Arvizo children since the drives?
Marian Arvizo: No.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Ms. Arvizo, good afternoon.
Marian Arvizo: Good afternoon.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know a Connie Keenan?
Marian Arvizo: Do I know Connie Keenan? No, I don't.
Mr. Zonen: You never met her?
Marian Arvizo: I believe I met her today.
Mr. Zonen: That's the first time you've ever met her?
Marian Arvizo: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Had no prior association with her at all?
Marian Arvizo: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you have a prior association with anybody who works at Mid Valley News?
Marian Arvizo: No, I don't.
Mr. Zonen: Had you ever talked with anybody at Mid Valley News?
Marian Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Zonen: Now, you testified that the manner in which you became familiar with the fact that your nephew needed this blood was from the news account; is that correct?
Marian Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: Was that a news account on the radio or news account on television?
Marian Arvizo: On television.
Mr. Zonen: On television? And had you seen that throughout El Monte on a number of occasions or just on one occasion?
Marian Arvizo: Actually, I was viewing the television set at my house in Covina.
Mr. Zonen: You and your brother both work at Von's; is that right?
Marian Arvizo: Yes, we do.
Mr. Zonen: Did you both work at the same Von's?
Marian Arvizo: No. He works in the warehouse and I work in the actual grocery stores.
Mr. Zonen: And do you work in more than one store?
Marian Arvizo: No, I work in one store.
Mr. Zonen: Is there a reason your brother didn't tell you about the need for blood?
Marian Arvizo: I didn't have contact with my brother.
Mr. Zonen: During that period of time?
Marian Arvizo: No, I didn't.
Mr. Zonen: During the time that you were raising money on behalf of Gavin -- excuse me, raising -- not “raising”, but recruiting volunteers to donate blood on behalf of Gavin, had you had any contact with your brother at all during that time?
Marian Arvizo: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: And did he tell you about the need for blood that Gavin was experiencing at that time?
Marian Arvizo: I explained to him that I was having -- organizing blood drives and doing the best I can to get the information out. As far as him being involved, no.
Mr. Zonen: And was that during the time that you were organizing the blood drives?
Marian Arvizo: Yes, it was.
Mr. Zonen: And prior to that, how long had it been since you had spoken with your brother David?
Marian Arvizo: About 15 years.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. No further questions.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down. Call your next witness.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, shall we call a witness or have a break? Whatever you like.
The Court: Do you want to break early?
Mr. Mesereau: Sure.
The Court: All right.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: I'm sorry. We took a few minutes longer. We're trying -- as you know, we're getting to the end of the trial. We're -- Is that a sigh I heard? What Mr. Sneddon and Mr. Mesereau and I were trying to do was just get a feel for where we are and schedule it out in our own minds. We didn't reach any conclusion. We're going to talk again tomorrow, but when we get our -- I think I left my cell phone on. I'm out of here.
The Bailiff: I have the “Sorry” card. (Laughter.)
The Court: How can I follow that? As soon as we figure out a plan here so that you'll -- we'll tell you, so you know what the schedule for arguments and jury instruction will be, but I don't think we can do that right at this point. We didn't get that final conclusion. All right. Mr. Mesereau, would you call your next witness?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, thank you, Your Honor. Defense will call Ms. Connie Keenan.
The Court: When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing. Face the clerk and raise your right hand.
Message: CONNIE KEENAN Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Connie Keenan: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Connie Keenan: My name is Connie Keenan. C-o-n-n-i-e, K-e-e-n-a-n.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good afternoon, Miss Keenan.
Connie Keenan: Good afternoon.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Keenan, how are you employed?
Connie Keenan: I'm sorry, I didn't hear --
Mr. Mesereau: How are you employed?
Connie Keenan: I am an editor for a community newspaper.
Mr. Mesereau: Which newspaper is that?
Connie Keenan: That's the Mid Valley News.
Mr. Mesereau: Where is that newspaper circulated?
Connie Keenan: In El -- well, we circulate in seven cities. The City of El Monte, South El Monte, Rosemead, Monrovia, Arcadia and Temple City.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long have you been doing that?
Connie Keenan: Since 1999, June.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And have you been in the newspaper business before that day?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And please just summarize what work you've done in the newspaper business.
Connie Keenan: I was a reporter, a political reporter, for The Independent Voice in San Diego Valley. Before that, I was fashion editor for Teen Magazine.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, where is your office located?
Connie Keenan: Our -- my office is 11401 Valley Boulevard, Suite 100, El Monte.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. At some point in time, did you meet someone named Janet Arvizo?
Connie Keenan: I have never met Mrs. Arvizo.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you spoken to her?
Connie Keenan: Yes, I have.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall the circumstances under which you spoke to her?
Connie Keenan: Mrs. -- I had assigned a story about her son to a college intern I had at the time by the name of Christie Causer. And I had some bad feelings about the whole incident and the whole story, and the mother wanted an additional story because she didn't make money enough money from the first story. And that's her words, not mine.
Mr. Mesereau: Which story did you authorize the paper to publish?
Connie Keenan: I authorized “Gavin Still Smiles”, which was the story about Mrs. Arvizo's son, who was suffering from cancer at the time. And the general thrust of the story is with the family was very, very bad off. They were losing their car. They were losing their home. And it's not a story we normally do. It was one I did not want to do. However, Mrs. Arvizo did play on some sympathies in the office, and it kind of -- I assigned it to Christie to do, because I didn't want to deal with it.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, how did you begin to even think about doing such a story?
Connie Keenan: Mrs. Arvizo called the office.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Connie Keenan: And she con -- she continually called the office, and I had told my secretary to tell her --
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor? Excuse me. I'm going to object on the basis of hearsay unless it's a personal conversation that she had with Mrs. Arvizo. Move to strike.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me ask you --
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm sorry.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You at the time -- let's set a time. What year was this, if you know?
Connie Keenan: This would be year 2000.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you were editor at that time?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And does your newspaper have a particular thrust, a particular --
Connie Keenan: Our --
Mr. Mesereau: -- theme to it?
Connie Keenan: We do nothing but positive community news. We are not an investigative-type newspaper at all.
Mr. Mesereau: And what is positive community news?
Connie Keenan: My goal, when I took over the paper and I purchased the paper, was to -- there's enough negative media out there. I wanted -- my goal is to make sure every kid in our cities have their face or photo in the publication sometime before I retire.
Mr. Mesereau: And how old is the publication?
Connie Keenan: Actually, the publication in itself was adjudicated in 1966.
Mr. Mesereau: And has it always had the same sort of thrust to it?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What changes has it gone through?
Connie Keenan: It came -- it's evolved from a purely political piece, making commentary within the communities it circulated, to, others would say, a purely fluff piece, and that's where it is now.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at some point you assigned, as you said, the writing of this particular article about Gavin Arvizo to an intern, correct?
Connie Keenan: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said her name was Christie Causer; is that right?
Connie Keenan: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Why did you do that?
Connie Keenan: It is not -- there are many people within the cities I serve that need money and are facing hard times, and my -- I felt that if I did one, I would have to do many, many more. I did not want to deal with it. I thought it was a human interest story, that's something Christie could learn from doing, which was part of her being an intern, but it was something that I didn't want personally to deal with myself.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you assigned it to Christie Causer, had you made the decision to have this article about Gavin Arvizo published?
Connie Keenan: No, not until her article was finished.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your idea that you would first see what Christie Causer wrote and then decide whether or not it's publishable?
Connie Keenan: Indeed. That is my job.
Mr. Mesereau: And just directing your thoughts to just what you were thinking at the time, what made you decide to have this article written?
Connie Keenan: I read all copy that goes into the newspaper.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me rephrase it. I'm not being clear. At some point, you got some information about Gavin Arvizo, right?
Connie Keenan: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: You thought about whether or not you wanted to assign this project to an intern, right?
Connie Keenan: I don't know where you're going, Counsel.
Mr. Mesereau: I'm trying to figure out why you wanted this article written.
Connie Keenan: We kept getting telephone calls from Mrs. Arvizo. Mrs. Arvizo talked to my secretary.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object. Excuse me. I'm going to object, unless it's based on personal knowledge, as being hearsay.
Connie Keenan: I received messages.
Mr. Mesereau: It's not offered for the truth.
Mr. Sneddon: Then it has no relevance.
The Court: Just a moment. I'll sustain her objection to her repeating what the secretary said.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Don't repeat what your secretary said.
Connie Keenan: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: But at some point, you made a decision you wanted this article created, right?
Connie Keenan: Indeed.
Mr. Mesereau: And without saying what the secretary said, was it based on the fact that these calls had come in?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Same objection. Move to strike. No personal knowledge; lack of foundation.
The Court: Overruled. The answer was, “Yes”. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: Without saying what was said, did you have a discussion with someone about this subject matter before --
Connie Keenan: I just --
Mr. Mesereau: -- before you decided that you wanted to try and do an article about Gavin?
Connie Keenan: I discussed it with my secretary, and my secretary told me --
Mr. Mesereau: You're not allowed to say what she told you.
Connie Keenan: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: So let me just try -- we have some technical rules we have to follow, okay?
Connie Keenan: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: The calls came in, and you discussed it with your secretary, right?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And after the discussion, you made the independent decision to assign to Christie Causer the responsibility of writing an article about the subject, right?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was a draft article written?
Connie Keenan: Yes. A draft article was written. I read through the article. I questioned the amount of money that was supposedly paid for an injection. I questioned the fact that the money had been requested to be sent to Mrs. Arvizo at her home address. And I told Christie that was not ethical, we could not do that, and we would not have that information in the paper unless there was a trust fund that was set up or if -- and that was the only way it would be in the paper.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, eventually did you authorize the publishing of that article?
Connie Keenan: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What was your concern about the costs of an injection?
Connie Keenan: My concern was that $12,000 for an injection was a little over the top. And I said, “Are you sure, Christie, that this was the amount that she said?” She said she tape-recorded it, and she went through it again, and yes, indeed, she said $12,000 for a chemotherapy injection.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, was the intent of the article to raise money to pay for Gavin's medical expenses?
Connie Keenan: It wasn't the intent. It was, “If you wish to do so, you may” --
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Connie Keenan: -- type of thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your intent to provide information to readers who wanted to contribute money regarding where to send the money?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you do that?
Connie Keenan: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: As far as what the money was to be raised for, was it your intention that this article was to raise money purely for medical expenses?
Connie Keenan: The thrust -- the whole slant of the article was how expensive it was for his medical care, which is what we assumed that money was going to go toward.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you know at the time you authorized the publishing of this article whether or not insurance was paying for Gavin's medical expenses?
Connie Keenan: I -- I will answer that yes, in a -- in an after-the-fact case.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me rephrase it. I'm sorry. I'll withdraw the question. Before you published an article that talked about raising money for Gavin, did you know whether or not insurance was paying for his medical expenses?
Connie Keenan: Before that? No, I did not know that.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did you authorize the publishing of an article which talked about $12,000 per injection for Gavin?
Connie Keenan: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did that information come from?
Connie Keenan: From Mrs. Arvizo.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to that as lack of foundation and hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Move to strike.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: Were there any other purposes to the publishing of this article as far as you were concerned?
Connie Keenan: No other, than --
Mr. Mesereau: Did you think this was an issue of community interest like you've described?
Connie Keenan: Of course.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how often -- or let me rephrase that. How many times did this article appear?
Connie Keenan: One time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was there any reason why it only appeared one time?
Connie Keenan: Um --
Mr. Sneddon: Object as immaterial and irrelevant.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Connie Keenan: I found out that the child was indeed covered by insurance.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, was any money raised through your newspaper's article?
Connie Keenan: Mrs. Arvizo told me that she wanted a second article because she didn't raise enough money from the first article, and that is why there were no other articles written.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn how much money was, in fact, raised?
Connie Keenan: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, to your knowledge, did the intern that you've mentioned, Christie Causer, actually write the article?
Connie Keenan: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you then edit the article?
Connie Keenan: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And after you edited the article, did you authorize the publication?
Connie Keenan: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, how often -- let me get to the year 2000. How often was your newspaper appearing in the year 2000?
Connie Keenan: Once a week.
Mr. Mesereau: Does it still appear once a week?
Connie Keenan: Still once a week.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever mention in any of your -- excuse me. Did you ever mention in your article about Gavin any information about a bank account where people could contribute to?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did the information on that bank account come from?
Connie Keenan: I instructed Mrs. Causer that she could not use the name of Mrs. Arvizo, nor her home address to send money or funds because we would have no idea where the funds went; that we would have to have a trust account. Approximately four days later, Christie came back to me and said that indeed the family had a trust fund.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you mention that trust fund in the article?
Connie Keenan: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever confirm whether or not it was, in fact, a trust fund?
Connie Keenan: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Who told you that it was, in fact, a trust fund?
Connie Keenan: It was listed in the article as a trust fund and an employee of that particular bank to refer all matters to.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know who was a signatory on that account?
Connie Keenan: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know if any withdrawals were ever made from that account?
Connie Keenan: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever communicating with a former attorney for Mr. Michael Jackson named Mark Geragos?
Connie Keenan: I wrote Mr. Geragos a letter.
Mr. Mesereau: And was that approximately November 24th, 2003?
Connie Keenan: Approximately, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Why did you write the letter to him?
Connie Keenan: I had seen the --
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as immaterial, and irrelevant, and calls for hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions at this time.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Good afternoon.
Connie Keenan: Good afternoon.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you have a chance to review -- is it Ms. Causer? It's Ms.?
Connie Keenan: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Missus? (Continuing) -- Ms. Causer's article before you came to court here today?
Connie Keenan: Not yet, but I did bring it.
Mr. Sneddon: You didn't review it before you came to court?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you have a chance to review the article that you wrote in your newspaper about the experience?
Connie Keenan: I did not write an article. I simply --
Mr. Sneddon: Well, you wrote an editorial?
Connie Keenan: Oh, I did read an editorial. No, I didn't reread my editorial, no.
Mr. Sneddon: Are you acquainted with anybody in the Arvizo family personally?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: David Arvizo, Marian Arvizo, nobody from that family?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: And with regard to the article that was published in your newspaper that was initially done by the intern, Christie Causer, did you make substantial changes in the editorial process or was it basically pretty much what she wrote?
Connie Keenan: It's basically pretty much what she wrote, the context.
Mr. Sneddon: And your goal as a newspaper was to attempt to put -- to emphasize the medical aspects of what was going on with Gavin at this particular point in time, correct?
Connie Keenan: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you have a picture of Gavin that accompanied the article?
Connie Keenan: Yes, we did.
Mr. Sneddon: And it's correct, is it not, that the article, in essence, the way it -- not “in essence”, the article that was eventually published after you had edited it basically dealt with Gavin's medical experiences on the whole, did it not?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: In other words, they talked about what had happened to him in terms of the cancer and the size of the tumor and the -- what had happened to him internally, correct?
Connie Keenan: And how expensive it was.
Mr. Sneddon: Well, I'm getting there. I just want to talk about, first of all, the process of the article itself.
Connie Keenan: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay? And then they talked about this need for blood, correct?
Connie Keenan: I believe so.
Mr. Sneddon: And they talked about the fact that the tumor weighed 16 pounds that they took out of him, correct?
Connie Keenan: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And then they talked about his fragile condition and how high risk he was, correct?
Connie Keenan: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And they talked about the fact that they had actually sent the tumor to research at Johns Hopkins and Cedars-Sinai to try to determine what kind of cancer it was. Do you recall that?
Connie Keenan: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sneddon: And then they talked a little bit about Gavin. They talked about how -- what a great sense of humor he had, and what a great spiritual outlook he had on the whole process, correct?
Connie Keenan: I believe so.
Mr. Sneddon: And then they talked about the fact that there were comedians and people in the entertainment industry who were supporting the family during this time of need, correct?
Connie Keenan: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And they mentioned, in fact, Chris Tucker, did they not?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And they talked about the fact that Fritz Coleman had actually advertised on T.V. to try to raise blood for Gavin, correct?
Connie Keenan: I don't recall that, but --
Mr. Sneddon: You don't recall that?
Connie Keenan: I just truly don't recall.
Mr. Sneddon: Do you have the article in front of you?
Connie Keenan: Yes, I have it.
Mr. Sneddon: Would it refresh your recollection if you looked at the article?
Connie Keenan: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: And I just direct you down to probably five-sixths of the way down to the bottom of the article.
Connie Keenan: Okay. Yes, sir. I see it.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And then after that, Gavin is quoted as saying, “There are more friends than reporters”, correct?
Connie Keenan: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And then they go on to talk about the expressions of gratitude and the fact that the family prays for helping Gavin in this particular situation, right?
Connie Keenan: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, we're almost at the end of the article, are we not?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: We're basically down to the last paragraph, correct?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And it's only in that paragraph is there anything mentioned about the financial situation of the family; isn't that correct?
Connie Keenan: True.
Mr. Sneddon: So would it be a fair statement to say that the vast -- vast majority of this article dealt with the personal plight of Gavin and the family rather than any financial aspects of the family, correct?
Connie Keenan: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, in the article it says that their car was repossessed, correct?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And it says that there's one chemotherapy injection that cost $12,000, correct?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And that's the only things mentioned about the finances for the family?
Connie Keenan: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, there's no mention in this article at all about the fact that they're going to lose their home, is there?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: You told the jury in your direct examination that you were told that they were going to lose their home, that Miss Causer told you that?
Connie Keenan: No, but the secretary that doesn't exist did.
Mr. Sneddon: Ma'am --
Connie Keenan: I'm sorry, I don't mean to be rude. It's just --
Mr. Sneddon: Well, you are being, so --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection, Your Honor. Move to strike counsel's comments.
The Court: I'll strike --
Connie Keenan: That was the only reason --
The Court: Just a moment. I'm going to instruct you that you must follow the rules of evidence here --
Connie Keenan: Okay.
The Court: -- and not comment to the jury on your opinion of them. Do you understand?
Connie Keenan: I --
The Court: Just a moment. Just tell me whether you understand that or not. You are not allowed to do anything except answer the questions.
Connie Keenan: I understand that.
The Court: Okay. Mr. Sneddon, ask the next question.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you not say on direct examination in front of this jury that you received the information with regard to the possible repossession of the house from Miss Causer?
Connie Keenan: Among other people, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: That information is not in the article, is it?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, are you certain that Miss Causer tape-recorded this conversation?
Connie Keenan: I asked -- yes, I am certain.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you review the tape of that conversation?
Connie Keenan: No, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: So you never -- you did not independently review the tape before you edit -- before you applied your editorial license to the article?
Connie Keenan: That's correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you write an article? You said you did write an editorial later, correct?
Connie Keenan: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: In the editorial you were very critical of Mrs. Arvizo, correct?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; relevance.
Connie Keenan: I don't recall being --
The Court: Just a moment.
Connie Keenan: -- critical.
The Court: Just a moment, ma'am. You have to wait till I rule.
Connie Keenan: Oh. Oh.
The Court: The objection is overruled. All right. You may answer.
Connie Keenan: The question once again.
The Court: I'll have the question read back.
The Court Reporter: In the editorial you were very critical of Mrs. Arvizo, correct?
Connie Keenan: I don't -- I -- I'm sort of stuck on the word “very”. I was critical, but I don't know about the rest.
Mr. Sneddon: I'll settle for that. That helps.
Connie Keenan: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you say in that article that Miss Causer had taken a cooked turkey over to the Arvizo family?
Connie Keenan: That was my understanding, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. You put that in the article?
Connie Keenan: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you determine later that that was incorrect?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you put in that article that Mrs. Arvizo said that she would rather have money than the turkey?
Connie Keenan: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you determine that was incorrect?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you talk to Miss Causer about that?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And you know that she denies that Mrs. Arvizo ever made that statement?
Connie Keenan: Then it's after the fact. I don't know that.
Mr. Sneddon: Did she tell you that when you asked her?
Connie Keenan: She told me that the reason she was upset was the mother said she would rather have the money instead of the food.
Mr. Sneddon: And that's what she told you?
Connie Keenan: That's what she's told me. And she's not retracted it since then.
Mr. Sneddon: She hasn't?
Connie Keenan: No, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: She denies that statement today, though. You know that?
Connie Keenan: No, I do not.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; improper question.
Mr. Sneddon: No, I'm asking if she's aware of that.
The Court: Objection sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Are you aware of the fact that she has denied ever making such a statement to you about that?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: You said in your article that she was crushed, correct?
Connie Keenan: Who?
Mr. Sneddon: Cindy Causer (sic).
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And that she was furious; is that correct?
Connie Keenan: That is correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Are those the words that she used in describing that event to you?
Connie Keenan: Those were the words I used when she relayed them to me.
Mr. Sneddon: I think the question was, were those the words that she used to you to describe the situation?
Connie Keenan: No. That was my observation.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, you at some point contacted Kaiser, correct?
Connie Keenan: I did.
Mr. Sneddon: It was at that point that you determined that there was medical coverage for the Arvizo family, correct?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And that event, in contacting Kaiser, did not occur until the allegations in this case became public; isn't that correct?
Connie Keenan: No, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: They were not?
Connie Keenan: No. If you're speaking of still my editorial? The -- the original story and the editorial.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm talking about when you contacted Kaiser to determine whether or not the Arvizo family had medical coverage. When did that occur? Before or after the allegations in this case became public?
Connie Keenan: Before.
Mr. Sneddon: How much before?
Connie Keenan: Three months before -- after the original article was written, so I would say January of 2001.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, did you -- did you ever determine whether or not the Arvizo car, the Arvizo family car, was in fact repossessed?
Connie Keenan: No, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you do any research into the financial background of the family in general?
Connie Keenan: No, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you determine whether or not the husband was employed?
Connie Keenan: No, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you determine whether or not the husband was on disability at the time that Miss Causer did the article?
Connie Keenan: No, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you determine whether or not the fact that he was on disability at the time may affect whether or not the medical insurance would continue to cover the child's expenses during the time of the cancer treatment?
Connie Keenan: No, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you determine -- did you assume that Miss -- Mrs. Arvizo was the one who was totally in control of the trust account that was set up in the name of the child?
Connie Keenan: I didn't know who was in charge of the trust account.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So you didn't know whether it was Mrs. Arvizo or David Arvizo, the husband?
Connie Keenan: Right.
Mr. Sneddon: But when you wrote your article, you didn't mention David Arvizo, did you?
Connie Keenan: Not to my recollection, no.
Mr. Sneddon: You pointed your article at Mrs. Arvizo?
Connie Keenan: That is who I had the dealings with.
Mr. Sneddon: I know. But you didn't mention the husband that she was married to?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: And you knew -- you knew no role what he played in the family.
Connie Keenan: None whatsoever.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you aware that Mrs. Arvizo was the victim of domestic violence for 16 years in relationship with the husband?
Connie Keenan: No, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; relevance.
Mr. Sneddon: I think it --
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, can I just be heard briefly?
The Court: All right.
Mr. Sneddon: It goes to the credibility of the bias in the article.
The Court: The objection is sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you determine whether or not any other members of the children of the family had been the victims of domestic violence?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Beyond the scope; relevance.
Connie Keenan: No.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you contact any of the celebrities who were mentioned in the original article by Miss Causer to get more information on the background of the family?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: You didn't contact, for instance, Fritz Coleman?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: You didn't contact Chris Tucker?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you aware of the fact that George Lopez, the comedian, and Ann Lopez, his wife, were helping the family at the same time to raise money?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you ever contact them?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Were you aware that Louise Palanker had provided funds to the family at the same time?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: To see whether or not -- what she knew about the family and the family's needs?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Are you familiar with a person by the name of Jamie Masada who owns The Laugh Factory?
Connie Keenan: I know the name.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you contact Mr. Masada to determine what his efforts were on behalf of this family to help their plight while their son was going through cancer?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: And you made no attempt to determine the husband's role in the expenditures of those funds from the trust account, correct?
Connie Keenan: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, the trust account information was placed in the newspaper by you?
Connie Keenan: I authorized its placement, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And it's your testimony that Miss Causer was the one who got that information?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And provided it to you to be printed in the paper?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And when Miss Causer went out to the house, she also gave the family some money, did she not, of her own?
Connie Keenan: She did not mention that to me.
Mr. Sneddon: You didn't reprimand her for giving them money and saying it was against your policy?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Now, were you aware of the fact that at the time that Miss Causer was writing this article -- let me go back. Was it your understanding that you were putting an article in the paper to enlist the community's support to assist this family during Gavin Arvizo's fight against cancer?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And was it your -- was it your particular understanding or at least the goal of the paper only to help raise money to offset the medical expenses?
Connie Keenan: That's true.
Mr. Sneddon: In other words, you didn't care whether their car was repossessed or what the other financial implications were to the family?
Connie Keenan: Well, I definitely care. But if money was raised for his medical expenses, then whatever moneys they were paying for medical could go to their everyday care.
Mr. Sneddon: But your article implied to the community, did it not, that this family was suffering not only because of medical expenses but also personal hardships that resulted from Gavin's cancer, correct?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Isn't that why you put the part in there about their car being repossessed?
Connie Keenan: You're referring to the editorial piece.
Mr. Sneddon: No, ma'am. I'm referring to the original article.
Connie Keenan: The original article says his car has been repossessed?
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, ma'am.
Connie Keenan: I don't recall that either.
Mr. Sneddon: Go ahead and look at the article. It's right down at the bottom.
Connie Keenan: Oh, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: It does, does it not?
Connie Keenan: Yes, it does.
Mr. Sneddon: So it's informing the community of El Monte and all the surrounding cities, the six other cities, that this family not only had medical expenses associated with Gavin's illness, but they had some personal hardships, personal financial hardships, correct?
Connie Keenan: As a result of medical problems.
Mr. Sneddon: Well --
Connie Keenan: Yeah.
Mr. Sneddon: You assume it was a result of the medical problems?
Connie Keenan: Sure.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you not assume that it could have been as a result of some of the other related problems created by the medical problem?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; compound.
Mr. Sneddon: Let me rephrase, Your Honor.
Mr. Sneddon: Has it been your experience that people who go through a severe medical hardship like this incur other substantial hardship expenses that are not directly related to the medical aspects of it, correct?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Beyond the scope; relevance.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Connie Keenan: I -- having been in that situation, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And were you aware at the time that Miss Causer wrote her letter, for instance, that Gavin Arvizo, when he would come out of the hospital from his chemotherapy treatments, would have to be in a special room? Did you know that?
Connie Keenan: No, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And did you know that in that special room they had to buy a special air purifier in order to protect against infection? Did you know that?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Relevance; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you know when this article was prepared that there were special hardship -- financial hardships associated with his medical treatment outside the course of the hospital?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; relevance; beyond the scope.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: So you -- you've told us that you do believe or understand the fact that there are financial hardships not associated with the direct paying of medical costs. Did you envision that this fund could be used to offset some of those financial hardships on the family?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: That was what was in your mind?
Connie Keenan: That was in my mind. I thought it was purely for medical reasons.
Mr. Sneddon: Would you concede to me that a public reading this article, you having mentioned the repossession of their car, might want to give money to help for other aspects of the hardships created by Gavin's medical situation, could you not?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation; calls for speculation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: No further questions.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever determine that the figure $12,000 for chemotherapy treatment given to your paper by Janet Arvizo was false?
Connie Keenan: No. Um -- no.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever call up and say, “You made a typo, it's really $1200”?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, how many messages did she leave with your paper, if you know, about these articles?
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Calls for hearsay.
The Court: Foundation. Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know how many phone calls Janet Arvizo made to your paper around the time you published the article?
Mr. Sneddon: Same objection, Your Honor.
The Court: You may answer that “yes” or “no”.
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many?
Connie Keenan: Five.
Mr. Sneddon: Same objection.
The Court: Sustained. Just a moment. I'm going to change my ruling on that. I'll leave the answer in, “Five”. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: The prosecutor asked you questions about what you were thinking when you published the article and what your intent was. Was it your belief that the Arvizos had to spend $12,000 per chemotherapy injection for Gavin?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was your belief based upon?
Connie Keenan: Based upon the interview by Christie, and she had it on tape.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that insurance would not pay for the $12,000 cost per injection?
Connie Keenan: At that time, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to that. Calls for her conclusion; speculation.
The Court: Sustained. Stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: Was the intent of the article -- excuse me. Was one of the purposes of the article to raise money to pay for the $12,000 per chemo injection cost?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, the prosecutor asked you questions if you knew about Miss Arvizo's marriage. Did you think it was your obligation to dig into that?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there any purpose in your article to talk about Ms. Arvizo's marriage?
Connie Keenan: Never -- no.
Mr. Mesereau: Was one of the purposes of the article to raise money to pay for a repossessed car?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as to which article he's talking about here now. It's vague as to which article. There's --
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase it.
Mr. Mesereau: Let's talk about the first article. Was one of the purposes of your newspaper publishing that article to help Janet Arvizo raise money for a repossessed car?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Let's talk about the second article. Was one of the purposes for having your newspaper publish that article the raising of money to pay for a repossessed car?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Mesereau: The prosecutor asked you questions about financial hardship that comes to a family that has some medical expenses, okay? Was one of the purposes of your first article to raise any money to pay for ancillary financial expenses of the family?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Was one of the purposes of the second article you published to raise money for nonmedical family expenses?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever try to ask the public to pay for any nonmedical expenses of the Arvizos in any of your articles?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, was it your understanding that the original article was based upon an interview with Janet?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it based upon one interview with Janet, if you know?
Connie Keenan: I don't know that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was it your understanding that Janet had called the paper about an article?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who did you learn that from?
Connie Keenan: My secretary.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did Janet ever call the paper and want other articles published to raise money?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times did she do that, if you know?
Mr. Sneddon: Object. Asked and answered.
Mr. Mesereau: I think I limited it to raising money, Your Honor.
The Court: I think the last question was how many times she'd called totally, so I'll sustain the objection.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, how many times did Janet Arvizo call your newspaper for the purpose of raising money?
Connie Keenan: I have no way of gauging that, Counsel.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And other than Christie Causer and your secretary, do you know if anyone else associated with your newspaper ever spoke to Janet?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How large a staff did your newspaper have at the time?
Connie Keenan: At the time, three.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And when you published your newspaper in 2003, approximately how many articles would you devote to this topic?
Connie Keenan: Very, very, very, very -- almost none to a family-in-need article.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And if you know, which page was the article published on?
Connie Keenan: It was on front page.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there any reason for that?
Connie Keenan: I think the story tugged at your heart strings. The child's face, beautiful.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you said that Janet complained that not enough money was raised from the first article, right?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she complain to you?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she call you at the paper?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How long was that conversation?
Connie Keenan: The conversation was approximately one minute and 20 seconds.
Mr. Mesereau: Why?
Connie Keenan: Because I didn't want to talk to her.
Mr. Mesereau: How come?
Connie Keenan: Because I had already established the fact that I had been duped.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Are you telling us that the conversation you had with Miss Arvizo was three months after the publication of the first article?
Connie Keenan: She wanted what --
Mr. Sneddon: No, I'm asking you a very specific question.
Connie Keenan: Okay. I'll listen again.
Mr. Sneddon: Maybe the court reporter could read it back, Your Honor.
The Court: All right.
The Court Reporter: Are you telling us that the conversation you had with Miss Arvizo was three months after the publication of the first article?
Connie Keenan: Approximately, yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Was three months later?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: After you'd already called Kaiser?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: And did you have a conversation with Miss Causer and ask her whether or not she could have made a mistake about the $12,000 and it really could have been $1200?
Connie Keenan: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: Did you go back and verify that?
Connie Keenan: I asked Mrs. Causer to verify it on her tape.
Mr. Sneddon: No, I think --
Connie Keenan: Oh, okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Let me make it clearer for you. After you determined from calling Kaiser -- well, first of all, you drew the conclusion you'd been duped because you determined that full medical coverage was being taken care of by Kaiser, correct?
Connie Keenan: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: But you made none of the inquiries I asked about before. You didn't check to see whether or not the insurance may have been jeopardy. Did you do that?
Connie Keenan: No, sir.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. And the reason that you feel that you were duped is because you felt, in your mind, that the money only should have been used to pay for the direct medical costs, correct?
Connie Keenan: Correct.
Mr. Sneddon: And yet, the article itself says nothing about where the money -- how the money is going to be expended, does it?
Connie Keenan: No.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. So the article, to somebody reading it in the public who didn't know your mindset, would not be able to determine from that that the money had to go directly into the direct medical expenses for Gavin Arvizo, would it?
Connie Keenan: No. You're right.
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you. I'll quit while I'm ahead.
Mr. Mesereau: Move to strike his comments.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down. All right. We'll recess until tomorrow. 8:30.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:30 p.m.
