Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Tuesday, May 24, 2005 8:30 a.m.
The Court: Good morning, everyone.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor.
The Jury: (In unison) Good morning.
The Court: Call your next witness.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, the defense will call Mr. Jay Leno.
The Court: All right. Come forward, please. When you get to the witness stand, remain standing. Face the clerk here and raise your right hand.
Message: JAY LENO Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Jay Leno: Yes, I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Jay Leno: My name is Jay Leno. L-e-n-o.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning, Mr. Leno.
Jay Leno: How are you?
Mr. Mesereau: Fine, thank you. Mr. Leno, in your work, do you deal with children's organizations?
Jay Leno: Yes, quite a bit.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you do?
Jay Leno: There are groups like Phone Friends, Make-A-Wish. You'll get phone calls, children in the hospital. “Could you give them a call?” And they'll ask you questions about, you know, “Oh, did you meet Britney Spears?” Whatever it might be. But usually that type of thing. It's usually kids that are maybe lonely or sick or something, and they watch T.V. or they watch it late at night, and you try to cheer them up. And it usually goes through, as I said, organizations like Phone Friends and Make-A-Wish.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have a specific procedure that you typically follow to learn about a child's desire in this regard?
Jay Leno: Well, when it comes from a legitimate organization, there's no procedure. We deal with them on -- I would say maybe 15 a week sometimes, 20 a week. So, “Oh, could you call” -- you'll get a list of children, “These are some kids that would like to hear from you today”. “Okay”. Sometimes they're in Minneapolis or -- they're all over the country. And you have a five- or ten-minute phone call. And then sometimes you do a follow-up, and you send a picture and hats, you know, things like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, do you have someone who screens these calls for you?
Jay Leno: Well, my assistant, who screens them. Not necessarily those calls, but, you know, all calls, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And is there a particular number that people get ahold of if they want to reach you or talk to you about something like this?
Jay Leno: I'm pretty accessible, either through the main Tonight Show number or my number at the show.
Mr. Mesereau: How many years have you been dealing with children's organizations like the ones you've described?
Jay Leno: Well, I've been doing The Tonight Show about 13 years and -- certainly that long. And before that, more informally.
Mr. Mesereau: And does your work with children involve simply talking to them on the phone, or do you make visits and things of that sort?
Jay Leno: Any of those things. Sometimes with Make-A-Wish, you'll have a situation where -- those are especially sad, because sometimes they're terminally ill children. They'll say, “Oh, this kid's 15, and he always wanted to go for a ride in a Lamborghini”, or something like that. And sometimes kids will come over to the garage and we'll take them for a ride. And maybe they want a back-stage tour of The Tonight Show. Maybe they want to sit at the desk and talk in the microphone. So it varies. Sometimes it's just a phone call, and sometimes it's a little more than that.
Mr. Mesereau: And if you decide to do something for a child, or an organization of children, what are the kinds of things you will do? What benefits will you provide them?
Jay Leno: Sometimes it's an auction-type deal to raise money. Sometimes they'll say, “We're having” -- you know, “This child was in a car accident”, or whatever it might be. “The family is having an auction. Would you sign some items or have celebrities sign items?” Sometimes you'll make a donation. Sometimes it's tickets to the show. It really varies on a case-by-case basis.
Mr. Mesereau: And if people want to raise money through you, how do they go about it?
Jay Leno: Well, you just sort of call and tell us what the situation is, and if we can do something to help, that's what we do. I mean, we try to do a little something for everybody that calls. Sometimes it's more; sometimes it's less.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you sometimes reject requests from parents or children?
Jay Leno: I don't know if “reject” is quite the word. I mean, sometimes -- you try to make -- if it goes through a legitimate organization, no, you don't reject them. Sometimes you get the odd, you know, “I'm a farmer. Our crops are” -- “our tractor's broken. Our fields are not doing well”, and the return address is Brooklyn, New York. So you go, “Hmm, that seems a little suspicious”. You know. So that one you kind of go, “I don't really know how legitimate that one is”. So, you know, you take them on a case-by-case basis.
Mr. Mesereau: At times do people who want to reach you get ahold of you directly?
Jay Leno: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how does that happen?
Jay Leno: They just call me. I'm pretty accessible. I pick up the phone. I go, “Hi, this is Jay”. And they go, “No, it's not”. And I go, “Yes, it is”. And then I spend ten minutes convincing them it is me, so -- but, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Will they call the studio to reach you directly?
Jay Leno: Yes, and I'll probably get a lot more calls after this. (Laughter.) My phone will be ringing tomorrow. Thank you for that. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: If they call the studio, can they get right to you or do they go right --
Jay Leno: Sometimes they can get right to me, actually. Yes, they can. Up until today they could get right to me. (Laughter.) Until just a few moments ago, you could reach me quite easily. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: The numbers that might get right to you, where do they get access to that?
Jay Leno: Well, other performers, comedians, car guys. I mean, my number is pretty much out there. I mean, I wasn't even unlisted until a couple of years ago. I was in the phone book.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know someone named Jamie Masada?
Jay Leno: Yes, Jamie owns The Laugh Factory, a comedy club in Hollywood.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you known him for a long time?
Jay Leno: Yes. I'm not -- I don't -- I tend to work some of the other clubs. I don't work his club very often. I've been doing this a long time, so I had some clubs that I worked. And then he opened up, and he was sort of the new club. And I kind of stuck with the clubs that I worked all the time. But, yes, I know him. Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And would it be accurate to say he's a friend of yours?
Jay Leno: Well, an acquaintance, yeah. A “friend” is all right. He's asked me for favors and things, yeah. “Friend” is okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Is he a close friend?
Jay Leno: No, I wouldn't say close friend.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you go to The Laugh Factory often?
Jay Leno: No, not very often.
Mr. Mesereau: When were you last there, if you remember?
Jay Leno: Oh, maybe a year ago. Not quite a year ago. A comedian, George Miller, had passed away, and there was -- they had a little service for him with a bunch of comics, and we all went down and told some jokes. I think that was about a year or so ago. Maybe a little bit longer. And occasionally -- Jamie does a lot of benefits, and he'll say, “Oh, could you come down and do 15 minutes or something?” And that's usually what it was. I don't work there but I'll go down and do benefits and things.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know someone named Louise Palanker?
Jay Leno: Yeah, Louise is a comedian. Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Is she a friend of yours?
Jay Leno: Yes, I've known Louise for a long time.
Mr. Mesereau: And would you describe her as a close friend?
Jay Leno: No, not a close friend, but an acquaintance. She dated a friend of mine, and I got to know her through him.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember a couple of years ago receiving a call from a child named Gavin?
Jay Leno: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when did that happen?
Jay Leno: Well, let's see. It's quite a few years ago. I guess 2000 maybe.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that Gavin had cancer?
Jay Leno: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Jay Leno: That's what I was told.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever talk to Gavin's mother?
Jay Leno: I believe I did. The circumstance -- I had gotten a number of calls, and I had -- you know, there are ways to sort of legitimize this. I had gotten these calls. And I called the hospital. I was put through to a room. I believe if I -- I believe I spoke to Gavin. And I think I spoke to possibly his brother, and I think I spoke to his mother. It's a little confusing, because these kind of conversations do tend to run together. When you make three or four of them a day, and you're calling hospitals, especially when it's five years ago, it's a little tricky. But I'm told -- I was told by Louise that they were really happy to hear from me, that I had called the room. So that verified yes, I did call. Because whenever I hear from a child, I always try to follow up on it. So I'm sure I called.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, how did you learn about Gavin?
Jay Leno: I had gotten a number of voice mails from him. That's how I was made aware.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did the voice mails give you a number to call the hospital?
Jay Leno: I'm not sure if the voice mails gave me the number or if I got the number from Louise, but somehow I obtained the number. I can't be sure on that point.
Mr. Mesereau: And you've indicated, Mr. Leno, you think you talked to Gavin's mother, right?
Jay Leno: I think so. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you recall whether she called you or you called her?
Jay Leno: No, I called. I called the hospital room. I had gotten a number of voice mails from the child, and I called the hospital room.
Mr. Mesereau: And they put you through at Kaiser to Gavin?
Jay Leno: I guess it was Kaiser. I can't remember what hospital it was, but they put me through to the room. Now, I'm not sure whether he was maybe a little groggy. I spoke to someone. It might have been the brother. And I believe I spoke to the mother but I can't be 100 percent sure, but I think I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall what Gavin said to you?
Jay Leno: The conversation in the hospital? Or any of the voice mails?
Mr. Mesereau: Well, let's start with the voice mails.
Jay Leno: Okay. The voice mails I got were, “Oh, I'm a big fan. You're the greatest”. Overly effusive for a 12-year-old. Most of the times when you talk to children, they talk like, “Hi, how are you doing. Uh, good to see you”. Yeah, I mean, it's -- you kind of have to pull it out of them: “Hi, how you feeling?” “Good. Hi”. I mean, you're talking to a kid. And this was -- sounded -- very adult-like conversation. I thought -- it just, you know, perked my interest at the time.
Mr. Mesereau: When you say “overly effusive”, what do you mean?
Jay Leno: “Jay Leno, you're the greatest”. You know, “I think you're wonderful. You're my hero”, this type of thing, which seemed a little odd to me at the time, for someone so young. Why a comedian in his mid-50s would be -- you know, I'm not Batman. You know what I mean? It just seemed a little unusual, but okay. And then I got two or three more.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Were the two or three more messages from Gavin, as far as you know?
Jay Leno: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever get any messages from anyone who claimed to be Gavin's mother?
Jay Leno: No. I didn't get any from the mother. Just from the child.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And based on those messages you then called the hospital?
Jay Leno: Called the hospital. And I believe I sent, you know, hat, T-shirts, that type of thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you spoke to Gavin at the hospital, right?
Jay Leno: Again, to the best of my knowledge, I did. Whether he was groggy, or in bed, or “Hi, uh, uh”. And then I spoke to someone else. And then I believe I spoke to the mother, who seemed very pleased that I called.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall what the mother said to you?
Jay Leno: No. Very general. “Thank you so much”. And, you know, my conversation was along the line, you know, “Our prayers are with you”, that type of thing. And, “If he gets out, and he'd like to tour the Tonight Show studios..”., you know, that type of thing.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the only time you recall speaking to Gavin?
Jay Leno: Yes, I believe that is.
Mr. Mesereau: And was that the only time you recall speaking to the mother?
Jay Leno: Yes, I believe so.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever getting any messages after that from Gavin or the mother?
Jay Leno: No, I don't think I did. I don't think I got any more after that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. At some point, did you complain to Louise Palanker about messages you were getting from Gavin?
Jay Leno: It wasn't so much a complaint. I just said to her, “What's the story here? This” -- “This doesn't sound like a 12-year-old. This sounds like an adult person”. It seemed -- I -- I think the words I used was, “It seemed a little scripted in his speech”. And then she said to me, you know, “That's just the way he is. He wants to be a comic, so he writes everything out before he says it, and then he kind of reads it”. And I said, “Oh, okay”. Well, that sort of made sense at the time.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, the child at the time was approximately 13, right?
Jay Leno: No, I think he was younger than that.
Mr. Mesereau: He was younger than that? Okay.
Jay Leno: This is about, what, --
Mr. Mesereau: 2000?
Jay Leno: 2000, yeah. This was just another typical day at the office up to this point. I didn't think anything unusual. So I guess he was younger than that, wasn't he?
Mr. Mesereau: What, about 10?
Jay Leno: 10 or 11 possibly.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever ask Louise Palanker who was writing these questions out for Gavin?
Jay Leno: No, I don't think I said that. I think I just said, you know, it sounded real scripted. It sounded like -- it didn't sound like.... And she said, “Well, he's very mature and he wants to be a comic, and so he's very careful in what he says”. And I said, “Oh, okay”.
Mr. Mesereau: Did that seem unusual to you?
Jay Leno: Well, once I got that explanation, it didn't seem unusual. It was just unusual for a child to contact me directly, because usually, as I said, at the very least, a parent, a doctor, a nurse, a teacher, Phone Friends, Make-A-Wish, those people call and say, “You'll be getting a call from this young boy or this young girl”. “Oh, okay”. “Expect it at this time”. “Okay”. To just get a call out of the blue was a little unusual.
Mr. Mesereau: When you say it seemed scripted, do you mean coached?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as speculative.
Jay Leno: No, it just --
The Court: Just a moment.
Jay Leno: Oh.
The Court: Sustained.
Jay Leno: Okay. Sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Louise tell you someone had written out what Gavin was supposed to say?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as hearsay, Your Honor.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point did you ask that Gavin stop calling?
Jay Leno: I asked Louise, I said, you know, “I've been getting a lot” -- I don't think I said, “Stop calling”. But I said, you know, “I've been getting a lot of these calls”. And she said, “Oh, I'll take care of it. Don't worry about it”. And I said, “Okay”.
Mr. Mesereau: When you said that to Louise, was it your desire that those calls stop?
Jay Leno: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And why was that?
Jay Leno: Um, because it was kind of the same call, sort of over and over again.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the child seem to call more than most do?
Jay Leno: Well, most children don't call. You call them, and you do follow-ups, and things like that. Every now and then I will give a child a private number if it seems especially -- I didn't do that in this case. But I'm not saying I never get calls directly from children, but this was a little unusual.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall the mother being in the background of your call to Gavin?
Jay Leno: I remember someone in the background, but again, I couldn't say it was the mother. It could have been a nurse. I just remember hearing someone talking as he was talking.
Mr. Mesereau: And after your last conversation with Gavin, did you ever do anything for Gavin?
Jay Leno: No. I never sent any money. Or -- I mean, I sent, I think, Tonight Show paraphernalia, hats, T-shirts, pictures. I wasn't asked for any money, nor did I send any.
Mr. Mesereau: In your conversation with Gavin, did you decide at some point to terminate the call?
Jay Leno: No, it wasn't -- whatever conversation we had, the best of my recollection, it was very brief. Because he was ill and I think he was, you know, maybe in the hospital bed or something. And that seemed more, “Hi, how are you?” “Okay”. “Okay. Hey, listen, keep your hopes up”, and this type of thing.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall whether or not you ever met Gavin?
Jay Leno: No, I don't think I ever met him.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall whether or not you ever met the mother?
Jay Leno: No, never met the mother.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you tell any of your assistants to try and stop the calls?
Jay Leno: I don't believe so. I think I just spoke to Louise about it. And I think Louise said, “Oh, I'll take care of it. I'll speak to him”.
Mr. Mesereau: Did the calls stop?
Jay Leno: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Mr. Zonen: Thank you.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Leno, good morning.
Jay Leno: How are you?
Mr. Zonen: Very well, thank you. How are you today?
Jay Leno: Fine.
Mr. Zonen: Welcome to Santa Maria.
Jay Leno: Why, thank you. It's a lovely town.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Leno, is it fair to say that you probably get calls, maybe 100 calls a year or even more from children who are in distress?
Jay Leno: A lot more than that. Yeah. Easily a couple of hundred. Maybe three or four, maybe five, six, seven a week. You know, one a day probably.
Mr. Zonen: Would you say that your recollection of your conversation with Gavin was as clear as your conversation with any of the other children you may have spoken to over that same year?
Jay Leno: Not much clearer, because, again, the conversation was in 2000. I thought nothing unusual until, what, three or four years later. So then I was thinking back, you know.
Mr. Zonen: Three or four years later you did get a call from law enforcement; is that correct?
Jay Leno: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And at that time they asked you about any conversations you may have had with a young child named Gavin?
Jay Leno: Yes, they did.
Mr. Zonen: At the time of that conversation, were you familiar with the content of a documentary that had screened entitled, “Living with Michael Jackson”?
Jay Leno: Yes, I had seen that.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; beyond the scope.
Mr. Zonen: It deals with recollection and familiarity with the name.
The Court: All right. Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: That's the Bashir documentary, Martin Bashir?
Jay Leno: Yes. I saw that, yes.
Mr. Zonen: And the part that you actually saw of that documentary, did it feature a child named Gavin?
Jay Leno: Yes, it did.
Mr. Zonen: At the time that the police contacted you, did you make an association between the name “Gavin” and that feature with Michael Jackson?
Jay Leno: Well, I had made it before that. The feature was on, and I had heard from a friend of mine --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Jay Leno: Oh.
Mr. Zonen: At that point in time, you heard -- excuse me, let me try that one more time.
Jay Leno: Okay.
Mr. Zonen: At some point in time you drew a correlation between the Gavin who was in the documentary “Living with Michael Jackson” and the Gavin who had called you; is that correct?
Jay Leno: Yes. Because the name “Gavin” is very unusual. And I saw, “Gavin, cancer.... Hey, wait a minute. I spoke to a Gavin that had cancer. I wonder if it's the same one”.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did that cause you to believe at the time law enforcement contacted you that that was the same child?
Jay Leno: Well, they didn't contact me until two years later.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. All right. Now, in the course of the conversations -- excuse me. In the course of the phone calls that were made by Gavin to you --
Jay Leno: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: -- that went to your voice mail --
Jay Leno: Right.
Mr. Zonen: -- do you have a sense of how many calls those were?
Jay Leno: Well, I think there were at least three or four. I think it was some -- there were three or four. And then I think we had gone on hiatus, vacation. And when we had come back, there were a few more. And that's when I spoke to Louise and said, “Um, what's going on? I keep getting a lot of these calls”. And she said, “I'll take care of it. He gets overanxious”, whatever it might be. I said, “Okay. It's not a big deal”. And then I didn't hear any more.
Mr. Zonen: Did she explain to you that Gavin was in and out of the hospital dealing with chemotherapy?
Jay Leno: Yes, she did.
Mr. Zonen: And had a fair amount of time on his hands?
Jay Leno: Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Did she tell you that he, in fact, did watch your show every night?
Jay Leno: She did. She went on to explain that he was a big fan. You know, you just tend to be -- in my position, as I said, there's a lot of odd -- you don't know whether it's a radio station playing a trick on you. So your first contacts sometimes are very, Uh-huh, okay. How are you doing? Where are you from? You know. And then it wasn't until I called the hospital, “Oh, this really a child who really is sick. Okay”. Then it got more real, you know.
Mr. Zonen: Were you aware -- did you become aware at any time that Gavin Arvizo was a graduate of the comedy camp at The Laugh Factory?
Jay Leno: I found that out later, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And you're familiar with the comedy camp, are you not?
Jay Leno: I know of it. I don't have -- I have never been to it, but I know of it, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: You understand that's a Jamie Masada creation?
Jay Leno: Right, right, right, right.
Mr. Zonen: And that's for disadvantaged children?
Jay Leno: Right.
Mr. Zonen: Were you aware that he had had kind of a long association with comedians like Chris Tucker and George Lopez and had even met Adam Sandler?
Jay Leno: Yeah, I found that out later.
Mr. Zonen: Would that tend to suggest to you that he really did have a sincere appreciation of comedians?
Jay Leno: Yes, it did.
Mr. Zonen: Does that clarify, at least in your mind, to some extent the motivation for the multiple voice messages that he left?
Jay Leno: Yes, it became clear.
Mr. Zonen: Did he ask you for money in any of these calls?
Jay Leno: No, no one ever asked me for anything. And I'm sure of that, because if they had, I would have sent something.
Mr. Zonen: Did Gavin ask you to do anything in these calls other than speak with him?
Jay Leno: I know I sent a picture and a hat and some other things. I was told by Louise he had the picture over his bed and he was thrilled to get it. So other than that, no, I was never asked for any, you know, financial things or anything like that.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And so you never had occasion to send them money; is that correct?
Jay Leno: No.
Mr. Zonen: And he did not ask you for money; is that right?
Jay Leno: No, no one asked me for money.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. I have no further questions.
Jay Leno: Okay.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Leno, when the police called you --
Jay Leno: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: -- did they call you at the studio?
Jay Leno: Called me at the studio, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know you were being secretly recorded?
Jay Leno: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn that?
Jay Leno: Yeah, I did learn that actually.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you remember when the police asked you if they were looking for money, you said, “I think so”?
Jay Leno: Yeah, I probably did say that. But they never asked me for any money. But at the time when I got the phone calls, originally, it sounded -- as I said, it sounded suspicious. When a young person that overly effusive, and, “Oh, Mr. Leno, you're the greatest. And you're” -- I thought, really? Why would -- it just didn't quite click for me, you know.
Mr. Mesereau: And you thought they were looking for money, right?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as asked and answered and improper opinion.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Does the degree of effusiveness, is that explained by his affection that you now understand for comedians?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; calls for speculation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Mr. Zonen: You did not know at the time of those voice messages that this is a child who had been a graduate of The Laugh Factory, laugh academy; is that correct?
Jay Leno: No, I didn't know, because, as I said, it was unusual to have a 12-year-old child leave you a long voice message. In the kind of business I'm in, you hear from a lot of crazy people, you know. And things -- and you're reluctant sometimes to follow up. But whenever it's a child, I always do follow up. You kind of drop all your guard, and go, okay, let me just -- because this might be real, you know. So that's what I did here.
Mr. Zonen: When you actually had the conversation with Gavin, was he gracious on the telephone?
Jay Leno: Again, that recollection is not clear to me. Because having spoken to a number of children in the hospital, you know, four or five a week sometimes, sometimes it kind of -- especially when children are sick, you tend to have a very general conversation along the lines of, you know, “Our prayers are with you”. And, you know, “Your parents love you”. And, you know, “When you get out”, you know, “maybe you'll be able to do this”, or “Come to our show, and we'll give you a VIP seat”, and -- you know, so you tend to talk in very general terms, so I can't be real specific about that.
Mr. Zonen: Could you have been speaking with a nurse when you were talking with Gavin at the hospital?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; calls for speculation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Well, you got on the telephone with a female; is that correct?
Jay Leno: Yes. It -- at the time I believe it was the mother.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. There was no advance notice from you that you would be placing that call; is that right?
Jay Leno: No, I just -- I tend to be -- I like to take care of things as they happen. You get a call, you get a letter. “Okay. Give me that number. Let me call them right now”, because if I put it down, there will be three more, and, you know, you don't want to leave a kid hanging. So, yeah, you take care of it right away.
Mr. Zonen: And there had been a series of phone calls over a period of time; is that correct?
Jay Leno: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And a vacation?
Jay Leno: I believe so.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And then a conversation with Louise Palanker?
Jay Leno: Right. Right.
Mr. Zonen: And then you called back?
Jay Leno: Uh-huh.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And there were no other calls after that conversation; is that correct?
Jay Leno: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; misstates the evidence.
Jay Leno: Oh.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Zonen: Is that true?
Jay Leno: I'm --
Mr. Zonen: That there were no other calls from Gavin to your voice message after your conversation?
Jay Leno: Right. After my conversation with Louise Palanker, she said, you know, “He gets real excited. I'll take care of it”. And I said, “Okay”.
Mr. Zonen: Then you called Gavin at the hospital afterward, after your conversation with Louise Palanker?
Jay Leno: No, I think it was before. You know, again, I -- I can't say for sure. Because it all tends to blend together. I remember I called -- I believe I called the hospital. And then after that, there were -- I think the messages came after that, but I would not swear to it.
Mr. Zonen: And nobody from your office arranged that telephone call in advance? In other words --
Jay Leno: No, no. I just pick up the call and -- I just pick up the phone and I make the call.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. No further questions.
Message: FURTHER REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Leno, when you spoke to Gavin and his mother --
Jay Leno: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: -- did you know the family was trying to get money from various celebrities?
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as assuming facts not in evidence, beyond the scope of cross-examination.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know anything about any fund-raisers at The Laugh Factory?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; irrelevant.
Jay Leno: Oh.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions.
Mr. Zonen: No further questions.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down.
Jay Leno: We have Renee Zellweger on the show tonight. (Laughter.)
The Court: Call your next witness.
Mr. Sanger: Could I have just a second to make sure the next witness is there? Because I believe he is. Your Honor, with the Court's permission, we'll call Suli McCullough. He's on our list, but he's farther down the list.
The Court: That's fine, Counsel. Come to the front of the courtroom, please. When you get to the witness stand, I'd like you to remain standing up there. Face the clerk over here and raise your right hand.
Message: SULI MCCULLOUGH Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Suli McCullough: Yes.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Suli McCullough: My name is Suli McCullough. S-u-l-i. Last name, M-c-C-u-l-l-o-u-g-h.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Mr. McCullough, how are you?
Suli McCullough: Oh, good. How are you?
Mr. Sanger: I'm doing pretty well so far. Now, you need to talk into the right -- the other one. That one, yeah. It's kind of hard to get close enough to it. All right. First of all, what is your occupation?
Suli McCullough: I'm a stand-up comedian, a writer and an actor.
Mr. Sanger: There you go. And do you have any connection from time to time with The Laugh Factory?
Suli McCullough: Yes, I perform there regularly. I've been a regular there since 1989.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And do you know Jamie Masada?
Suli McCullough: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, have you ever met Michael Jackson?
Suli McCullough: No, I have not.
Mr. Sanger: All right. At The Laugh Factory, did you have occasion to meet a child by the name of Gavin Arvizo?
Suli McCullough: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: And did you have occasion to actually visit him at the hospital from time to time?
Suli McCullough: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: About how many times?
Suli McCullough: I would say about three or four times.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did you have extensive dealings with Gavin, or how would you describe it?
Suli McCullough: I would say, yeah, I did have extensive dealings with Gavin. He was in my comedy camp. Comedy camp is something we do for underprivileged kids, and we teach them the fundamentals of stand-up.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And have you -- for instance, have you ever been to his house?
Suli McCullough: No, I have not.
Mr. Sanger: Has he ever been to your house?
Suli McCullough: No. They did call my house often. And I invited the family -- I was on The Jamie Fox Show for a couple seasons, and I invited the family to a taping.
Mr. Sanger: Did they go?
Suli McCullough: Yes, they did.
Mr. Sanger: So at some point, you understood that Gavin Arvizo became sick; is that right?
Suli McCullough: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: Was there a fund-raiser that was organized by Jamie Masada at The Laugh Factory?
Suli McCullough: Yes, there was. We actually did two fund-raisers.
Mr. Sanger: I was going to ask you how many.
Suli McCullough: We did two, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Were you there at the fund-raisers?
Suli McCullough: I was there for both fund-raisers.
Mr. Sanger: Did you see how they were put on? In other words, what happened?
Suli McCullough: Yes, I did see how they were put on. I also participated in both of them.
Mr. Sanger: So you participated as a comedian on the stage --
Suli McCullough: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: -- is that correct? And did you see the actual fund-raising, the collecting of the money?
Suli McCullough: No, I did not.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, in the course of this fund-raising, were you told by Jamie Masada what the purpose of the fund-raisers were?
Suli McCullough: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sanger: And what did he tell you the purpose was?
Suli McCullough: He told me the purpose --
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; hearsay.
Mr. Sanger: It's impeachment.
The Court: All right. Overruled.
Suli McCullough: Jamie told me that the purpose of the fund-raisers were to raise money to help pay for the medical expenses.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object as irrelevant.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Sanger: And did you have occasion to be at a press conference held by Jamie Masada on January 5th, 2005? I think that was the date.
Suli McCullough: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And did Mr. Masada at that press conference indicate that the fund-raiser for Gavin Arvizo was put on --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object as leading and hearsay.
The Court: Sus -- I didn't hear the whole question. Do you want to --
Mr. Sanger: It may be leading. Rather than just blurt it out, let me rephrase it.
The Court: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Did Mr. Masada speak at that press conference?
Suli McCullough: Yes, he did.
Mr. Sanger: And did he state the purpose of the fund-raiser for Gavin Arvizo at that press conference?
Suli McCullough: I don't remember if he did or not.
Mr. Sanger: And did you?
Suli McCullough: Did I state that? Yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: And you stated at that time that it was for raising money for medical bills, right?
Suli McCullough: That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Leading and hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Did you state the purpose of the fund-raiser at that time?
Suli McCullough: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And what did you say it was?
Suli McCullough: I said --
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Suli McCullough: Can I continue?
Mr. Sanger: Was Mr. Masada present at the press conference when you spoke?
Suli McCullough: Mr. Masada was present, yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you stated the purpose of the fund-raiser as you understood it, correct?
Suli McCullough: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I have no further questions.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Good morning, Mr. McCullough. How are you?
Suli McCullough: I'm good, how are you?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm just fine. You had a conversation with Mr. Masada where he told you that Gavin's fund-raiser was going to help raise money for medical expenses?
Suli McCullough: Jamie asked me to participate in the fund-raiser and he said that the money would be used to go -- to help cover the medical expenses. That's correct.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Were you aware whether or not Gavin was going to have any medical expenses after he got out of the hospital?
Suli McCullough: From visiting him in the hospital, and knowing that -- where the family came from, it was pretty common knowledge that medical expenses are expensive.
Mr. Auchincloss: Uh-huh.
Suli McCullough: And yes, they were going to incur some costs.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Did you know that they were going to have to prepare a safe room or a room that would be germ-free for Gavin after he got out of the hospital?
Suli McCullough: I was aware of that, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would you consider that a medical expense?
Suli McCullough: I would, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Thank you. No further questions.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Were you aware that the germ-free room was paid for by Louise Palanker?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Hearsay, foundation, and vague as to time, I would say.
The Court: The objection's sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Were you aware that -- as of the time that you made this last statement in January of 2005 about the fund-raiser being for medical expenses, were you aware that Gavin Arvizo had full medical coverage through Kaiser Permanente as a result of his father's long-time employment at Von's?
Suli McCullough: No, I was not aware of that.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Hearsay; irrelevant.
The Court: Overruled. The answer is in.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you. I have no further questions.
Mr. Auchincloss: No further questions.
The Court: All right. Thank you very much.
Suli McCullough: All right. Thank you.
The Court: Call your next witness, please.
Bailiff Cortez: Judge, I'm sorry, one of the jurors needs to go to the back room.
The Court: She had to step out for a second. Can counsel approach? We can take up that issue that we were going to have to take up.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you mean the motions?
The Court: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
The Court: On your motion. (Discussion held off the record at sidebar.)
The Court: (To Juror No. 5) Just so you know, I used that time very effectively.
Juror No. 5: Thank you.
The Court: All right. Call your next witness.
Mr. Sanger: May I proceed?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Monica Wakefield, please.
The Court: Come to the witness stand, please. When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing. Face the clerk over here and raise your right hand.
Message: MONICA DE LA SANTOS WAKEFIELD Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Monica Wakefield: I'm Monica De La Santos Wakefield. Shall I spell my last name?
The Clerk: Yes, please.
Monica Wakefield: W-a-k-e-f-i-e-l-d.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: All right. Miss Wakefield, the first thing we tell everybody is to lean into that right microphone, the one on the right. It's a little hard to do so --
Monica Wakefield: Sorry.
Mr. Sanger: No, that's okay. How are you employed?
Monica Wakefield: I work for Kaiser Permanente Regional Reference Laboratory.
Mr. Sanger: And where is that located?
Monica Wakefield: North Hollywood.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, at some point, you were contacted by the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Department to look into some medical records; is that correct?
Monica Wakefield: That is correct.
Mr. Sanger: And you did that for them; is that correct?
Monica Wakefield: Yes, sir.
Mr. Sanger: And you reported back your findings?
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I'd like to refer to that same incident. Before I do that, do you recall roughly when it was that you talked to the sheriff's department?
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: When was that?
Monica Wakefield: I think that was a year ago, May or March. One of the “M” months --
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Monica Wakefield: -- for sure.
Mr. Sanger: March or May. But sometime sort of the spring of 2004; is that right?
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And were you asked to look into your records to see if a creatinine clearance test had been conducted with regard to a patient, Gavin Arvizo?
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you determine whether or not that had occurred?
Monica Wakefield: I don't understand what you mean. If that had -- the test was taken?
Mr. Sanger: Whether or not the test was taken, yes. Did you look into the records to determine what had happened?
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Do you recall when the procedure, the medical procedure, occurred; that is, the sample was brought in?
Monica Wakefield: I don't remember the date of collection, because it was on microfiche when I received the photocopy from microfiche.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Monica Wakefield: And so I don't remember the date of collection. But I do remember that I think there was - it's been a year, so I apologize - not enough specimen for the test to be completed, I think.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Let me -- May I approach with -- Or let me ask you if it would refresh your recollection to take a look at a police report that was --
Monica Wakefield: Certainly.
Mr. Sanger: May I approach?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to leave this up here. I have another copy. You can look at the whole thing. And I think you might want to look right around that area of the report. Take a moment, read that over, and see if that helps refresh your recollection as to what it was that you reviewed when you looked at the records, and then I'll ask the specific questions.
Monica Wakefield: May I ask a question?
Mr. Sanger: Yeah.
Monica Wakefield: Do you know who may have the microfiche copy that I had sent? May I look at that if it's available?
Mr. Sanger: If -- you sent it to the --
Monica Wakefield: To Sergeant Robel.
Mr. Sanger: To Sergeant Robel. Well, you can ask that question and I can't answer it.
Monica Wakefield: Okay. Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Sergeant Robel happens to be in the courtroom, but let's go on with what we've got here as best you can.
Monica Wakefield: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: If you need to look at the underlying records, we'll take a break, call another witness, and we can try to find those records. Let's see how far we can get.
Monica Wakefield: Sure.
Mr. Sanger: If this helps you refresh your recollection. Does it at all?
Monica Wakefield: Yes, it does.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So do you recall when the -- the original report for medical services was? In other words, somebody came to Kaiser Permanente with regard to this creatinine clearance on a particular date. Do you recall what that date was?
Monica Wakefield: I don't remember the date of collection. I just remember the phone call.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Monica Wakefield: I think it was --
Mr. Sanger: Reviewing the report does not refresh your recollection as to the date?
Monica Wakefield: The date of collection where the specimen could have been taken, is that what you mean?
Mr. Sanger: The outpatient summary report, the date that something occurred at Kaiser Permanente.
Monica Wakefield: Like on Tuesday, May 11th, right? Talking about that one, when I received the fax?
Mr. Sanger: Yes. There's --
Monica Wakefield: I do remember that, uh-huh.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, there's a date of the actual report that's in this report. Does that refresh your recollection as to that date? If it does, fine. And if it doesn't, that's okay.
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: What was the date that the actual summary report occurred?
Monica Wakefield: It was the 10th.
Mr. Sanger: March 10th of what year?
Monica Wakefield: Of -- no, wait, last year, so it was 2004. Last year. May. I think it was May 9th or 10th. I'm looking back into my memory bank here, and -- of the phone call, and of the date of the phone call originally. And then when I had faxed it to Sergeant Robel, I think it was May 11th.
Mr. Sanger: All right. It was May 11th, 2004, when you faxed the report to Sergeant Robel?
Monica Wakefield: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: So the question is, what was the date of the original report?
Monica Wakefield: The date of collection?
Mr. Sanger: You're saying date of report --
Monica Wakefield: What I mean is when a patient comes in and has their specimen drawn. Is that what you mean?
Mr. Sanger: Okay. All right.
Monica Wakefield: That I don't recall.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And looking at that paragraph doesn't refresh --
Monica Wakefield: It does not ring a bell.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So you would be able to --
Mr. Sneddon: I may be able to help speed this up a little bit. You may want to show her this.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you. May I -- yes, okay. May I approach with this document?
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Let's see if that helps.
Monica Wakefield: Oh, yeah.
Mr. Sanger: There you go.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm glad to help.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you, Mr. Sneddon.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. All right. Now, take a look at that and then see -- first of all, as soon as you're finished looking at it, let me know and I'll ask you a question.
Monica Wakefield: Okay. I do have a memo of that, uh-huh.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, was that a record that is kept in the ordinary course of business at Kaiser Permanente?
Monica Wakefield: Not in our department, but it is on microfiche. When it's in the system, there's a certain amount of days that it's kept in the system and then it's purged and then we have to request for microfiche.
Mr. Sanger: And you are a client service advocate for Kaiser Permanente; is that correct?
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And so your job is to field issues and problems that relate to services that are provided for patients of Kaiser Permanente; is that correct?
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And it's your job to routinely look into the records of Kaiser Permanente to determine what procedures were performed and report that to other people; is that correct?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor --
Monica Wakefield: Only to --
Mr. Sneddon: Excuse me. Maybe I can speed this up, too. If counsel is trying to establish the business records exception, I'll stipulate that the exhibit can be admitted into evidence.
Mr. Sanger: I think I'll accept that. May I take one more look at it, just to see?
Monica Wakefield: We only speak to medical staff.
Mr. Sanger: Hold on one second. All right. Before I accept that stipulation, can I ask a few more questions?
The Court: Absolutely.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: When you look at that particular document --
The Court: Counsel, I'm sorry to interrupt you. Would you mind -- let's put a number on it right now.
Mr. Sanger: I realized that just as I started to talk. Defense next in order, please.
The Court: All right. What is that?
The Clerk: That would be 5107.
The Court: That will be 5107. Yes. Go ahead.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, looking at Exhibit 5107, does that indicate when the patient came to Kaiser Permanente?
Monica Wakefield: Yes. It says, “Date of collection”.
Mr. Sanger: Was that March 10, 2003?
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And the patient in that case was Gavin Arvizo; is that right?
Monica Wakefield: It does say so.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, it does not say on that report that there is not an adequate specimen, does it?
Monica Wakefield: It says, “No specimen received”. So according to this, the technologist who tested in the chemistry department did not have a specimen to test.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, does it tell you whether or not -- which specimen we're talking about, a urine or a blood specimen?
Monica Wakefield: Doesn't indicate to me.
Mr. Sanger: Does it show that there is a urine specimen of 90 milliliters?
Monica Wakefield: I think with that indication of “90 ML”, I think that means that they need at least that, or they need that to complete the test. But it says -- the “TV” is total volume. So if it says “90 ML” and -- for the specimen container to be in, and there's nothing in there, it's going to say, “No specimen received”. They will result it out as “No specimen received” if it's an empty --
Mr. Sanger: Do you remember telling the Santa Barbara sheriffs that it was noted in the results that the -- that the urine sample contained 90 milliliters? So the question is whether or not you recall telling the sheriff that?
Monica Wakefield: I don't remember.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall telling the sheriff -- let me withdraw that. Do you recall, after faxing the report to the sheriff's department, that you were recontacted by telephone by the sheriff's officer?
Monica Wakefield: Uh-huh. Uh-huh. I do remember that.
Mr. Sanger: And that was Sergeant Robel; is that correct?
Monica Wakefield: Yeah, uh-huh.
Mr. Sanger: And Sergeant Robel asked you why the creatinine test was incomplete. Do you recall him asking you that?
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And do you recall telling him because the lab technician failed to take blood from the victim?
Monica Wakefield: Not so much that they failed. I don't remember saying that. But for a creatinine clearance, I belive they need a serum and a urine, and it looks like that it may be one or both specimens. According to this report, as I look at it, there was no specimen received for either.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, again, do you recall telling Sergeant Robel at that time that you need both the blood and the urine to complete the test?
Mr. Sneddon: Object as asked and answered, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Monica Wakefield: I think, yeah, it rings a bell.
Mr. Sanger: And do you recall telling them that you only needed 10 milliliters of urine to conduct the test?
Monica Wakefield: Yes, at least 10 ML. Yes, I do remember that.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to ask you to look at the report that's in front of you, not the exhibit, but the police report --
Monica Wakefield: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: -- and look at the last three lines there on page three, which I think is the one that you're turned to. Just read it to yourself.
Monica Wakefield: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sanger: And you can turn to page four and read the rest of it if you want.
Monica Wakefield: Okay. I do recall this, yes.
Mr. Sanger: Does that refresh your recollection that you told Sergeant Robel that there was 90 milliliters of urine that was brought in?
Monica Wakefield: I still wouldn't remember. And the reason why I say -- if I may say so, when --
Mr. Sanger: Well, the question, first of all, is --
Monica Wakefield: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: -- does that refresh your recollection --
Monica Wakefield: No.
Mr. Sanger: -- as to whether or not that's what you told --
Monica Wakefield: No, it still doesn't. It still doesn't. But there's a reason why, though, that I would think that's why. But I won't state it if it's not necessary.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Let me ask another question. I don't mean to keep you from talking, but let me ask another question here.
Monica Wakefield: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: And then just to be clear, if you look at the paragraph before that -- and this may have been asked and answered, and I will apologize in advance, but I'm bit unsure at the moment. Look at line 23 and 24 on that page three. The sentence there.
Monica Wakefield: Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
Mr. Sanger: Does that refresh your recollection that you told Sergeant Robel that the reason the creatinine test was incomplete was due to the lab technician failing to take blood from the victim?
Monica Wakefield: Rings a bell.
Mr. Sanger: So does that refresh your recollection that that's what you told Sergeant Robel after reviewing the records?
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Monica Wakefield: But there's also an explanation with that, too. But I won't add to it unless you want me to.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Well, my question, is that what you told Sergeant Robel?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, asked and answered. Object.
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
The Court: Just a moment, I'm sorry. Overruled. And the answer was, “Yes”.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. I have no further questions.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Would you like to tell the jury what it is that you'd like to tell them about the explanation?
Monica Wakefield: Yes, I would.
Mr. Sanger: Objection. Calls for a narrative.
Monica Wakefield: If they want me to.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Monica Wakefield: I'm sorry.
Mr. Sneddon: That means you can go ahead and tell the jury.
Monica Wakefield: Okay. When we do research, you know, a medical staff person, we do not speak to patients at the regional reference lab. We only have their specimens. But in this particular one, when we receive a phone call, as Sergeant Robel had called, what I know I did was that I looked up in our reference manual for the information of what a creatinine clearance would require for a certain specimen. There are hundreds of specimen tests that we reference every day. You know, we'll get a phone call, “What does the hepatitis surface antibody need, or a surface antigen need? Virgin 2 or not Virgin 2?” Things like that. So if I remember in my mind back a year ago - and I do apologize for the incomplete explanation - but I do know that if -- when I received the phone call, I looked up creatinine clearance in one of our reference manuals. And it spec -- it just gave an explanation of it needed such and such specimen. And I don't even know it now, you know, even though we do creatinines every day. But it would just say something and then we'd have to give it --
The Court: Just a moment.
Mr. Sneddon: Okay. I'll ask you another question.
Monica Wakefield: Okay.
The Court: Go ahead.
Mr. Sneddon: Let me just ask you this.
Monica Wakefield: Okay.
Mr. Sneddon: Looking at the document, 5107, --
Monica Wakefield: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: -- is it your -- as I understand, it is your opinion, in reviewing that document, that from that document, it indicates that neither one of the specimens were sufficient to do the test, correct?
Monica Wakefield: That is correct.
Mr. Sneddon: Both the urine and the blood?
Monica Wakefield: Uh-huh.
Mr. Sneddon: No further questions.
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
The Court: Counsel?
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, you said you talked to Sergeant Robel from the sheriff's department?
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Last year, correct?
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And then you talked to an investigator, Scott Ross, on the 20th of this month, four days ago, right?
Monica Wakefield: Yes, Friday.
Mr. Sanger: And he went over what you had told Sergeant Robel; is that correct?
Monica Wakefield: Uh-huh. Yes. This is the same page.
Mr. Sanger: And you told him that you were -- you had been in communication with Sergeant Robel, correct?
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: A year ago?
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you told him that --
Monica Wakefield: Back in February, too. February.
Mr. Sanger: And you told him you received a subpoena in February of this year from the prosecution; is that right?
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
Mr. Sneddon: I'm going to object as immaterial and irrelevant. It's beyond the scope.
The Court: Overruled. Go ahead. The answer was, “Yes”. Next question.
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: And when you talked to Mr. Ross four days ago, you told him that your recollection was correct -- I'm sorry, your recollection was consistent with the police report; is that right?
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you told him that the specimen collected was 90 milliliters; is that correct?
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you told Scott Ross that the amount needed for the test was 10 milliliters, correct?
Monica Wakefield: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you told him that the test was not performed as a result of lab personnel's failure to obtain blood; is that correct?
Monica Wakefield: Yes, but that's with the explanation that I was giving to the other gentleman there.
Mr. Sanger: That's -- you didn't give Scott Ross that further explanation, did you?
Monica Wakefield: No, it's all coming back to me, you know, after a year.
Mr. Sanger: So you told Scott Ross that the test was not performed as a result of lab personnel's failure to obtain blood; right?
Monica Wakefield: Yes, I did.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you. No further questions.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SNEDDON:
Mr. Sneddon: Thank you, by the way, for calling me a gentleman. When Mr. Ross interviewed you, he didn't show you that report that's been marked for identification?
Monica Wakefield: This one?
Mr. Sneddon: No, no, the lab report.
Monica Wakefield: No. He didn't have it.
Mr. Sneddon: He didn't show it to you?
Monica Wakefield: No. But I asked him if you had it, I'd be able to remember better, you know. Because I know in line 22 or 23, or -- no, up here --
Mr. Sanger: Objection; nonresponsive.
Monica Wakefield: I'm sorry.
Mr. Sneddon: That's okay. During the interview you were not shown a copy of that, of the lab --
Monica Wakefield: No.
Mr. Sneddon: -- of the report that you now have?
Monica Wakefield: Huh-uh. No.
Mr. Sneddon: I have no further questions. And I move that be admitted into evidence.
The Court: All right. Do you have any other questions?
Mr. Sanger: I have no further questions.
The Court: As to the motion?
Mr. Sanger: I'll submit it, Your Honor.
The Court: And I'll admit the document. You may step down. Thank you. Call your next witness.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor. The defense will call Miss Mary Holzer.
The Court: Come forward, please. When you get to the witness stand, remain standing. Face the clerk here and raise your right hand.
Message: MARY ELIZABETH HOLZER Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Mary Holzer: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Mary Holzer: Marry Elizabeth Holzer. H-o-l-z-e-r.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning, Miss Holzer.
Mary Holzer: Good morning.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Holzer, what kind of work do you do?
Mary Holzer: I am an office manager/paralegal for a law firm.
Mr. Mesereau: And which law firm is that?
Mary Holzer: Law Offices of Feldman & Rothstein.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that in Los Angeles?
Mary Holzer: Pasadena.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where is your home, without giving the address? Do you live in Los Angeles?
Mary Holzer: I live in Encino.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know someone -- actually, before I go into that, please give a brief history of your responsibilities at the firm.
Mary Holzer: I handle cases, clients.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Let me start a little better than that.
Mary Holzer: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you first start work at that law firm?
Mary Holzer: I believe it was 1985 or '86. I'm not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you started work at the firm, what were you doing?
Mary Holzer: I was originally hired as a personal secretary to Mr. Rothstein.
Mr. Mesereau: And Mr. Rothstein is a partner at the firm?
Mary Holzer: Yes, sir.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you have any other responsibilities at that firm from time to time?
Mary Holzer: Yes, I do the banking. I do supply ordering. I handle clients that need assistance. Occasionally, you know, I work the files.
Mr. Mesereau: And have your job responsibilities changed through the years?
Mary Holzer: I've gotten more responsibilities, yes, over the years, of course.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you mean by that?
Mary Holzer: Well, when I first started out, I was just as secretarial, and then it proceeded to -- I was promoted to office manager, as our firm got larger. And then I took on more responsibilities.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet someone named Janet Arvizo?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know approximately when you met Janet Arvizo?
Mary Holzer: I can't give you the year, I'm sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when it may have been?
Mary Holzer: Maybe 1999.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall the circumstances under which you met Janet Arvizo?
Mary Holzer: The family came to our office to retain us to represent them in a case.
Mr. Mesereau: And what case was that?
Mary Holzer: It was a case, assault and battery, against J.C. Penney's.
Mr. Mesereau: And did your firm represent the Arvizo family in that case?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know who in the Arvizo family you represented?
Mary Holzer: David Arvizo, Janet Arvizo, Gavin Arvizo and Star Arvizo.
Mr. Mesereau: After your firm agreed to represent the Arvizo family in the lawsuit against J.C. Penney, did you have a lot of involvement with the Arvizos?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you please explain what you mean.
Mary Holzer: I was in charge of -- I don't want to call it hand-holding, but pretty much -- they didn't have a car, so I drove them to appearances. I sometimes helped out when they didn't have child care, when they needed -- if David or Janet needed to go somewhere for the case. Not personal.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you talk to Janet Arvizo from time to time?
Mary Holzer: Daily.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you mean by that?
Mary Holzer: She would pretty much call several times a day, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: That was almost every day?
Mary Holzer: Close, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would she call for you?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you develop a friendship with Janet Arvizo?
Mary Holzer: That's kind of hard to explain. “A friendship” as in did I like her and were we buddies?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Mary Holzer: She was a client.
Mr. Mesereau: Was she a friend?
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you talk to her children from time to time?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And typically how would that happen?
Mary Holzer: They would come into the office. Usually they would pop in every once in a while and the children would come in my office, and sit on my lap, and draw me pictures, tell me how much they loved me, and write little notes and post it on my pin board, and say how great I was, and that I was helping their family.
Mr. Mesereau: Would Janet tell you how great you were?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How would she do that?
Mary Holzer: She always would say when everything's over, she wants to take me to Las Vegas and have a girls weekend, and things like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever go to Las Vegas with her?
Mary Holzer: No. No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever have a girls weekend with her?
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you indicated that you would drive the family to various locations?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And you said you would drive them to appointments?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What kind of appointments are you talking about?
Mary Holzer: Defense Independent Medical Examinations, mediation, the minors' comps, hearings, depositions.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times do you think you drove the family to these various appointments while your firm was representing the Arvizos in the J.C. Penney suit?
Mary Holzer: Multiple, multiple times. I -- more than I could count.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, do you recall at some point Janet Arvizo being in a driveway?
Mary Holzer: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: What do you recall about that?
Mary Holzer: Well, it depends on which driveway you're speaking of.
Mr. Mesereau: Well, what do you recall about her being in a driveway and falling down?
Mary Holzer: Throwing herself down on the ground?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as relevance, Your Honor.
The Court: Overruled.
Mary Holzer: She had an Independent Medical Examination with a physician for her injuries. I don't know if you want me to tell you --
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, please.
Mary Holzer: -- the whole story.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, please.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object to the narrative answer.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: What did Janet Arvizo do in the driveway when she was there for that examination?
Mary Holzer: She threw herself down on the ground, started kicking and screaming, carrying on that the doctor was the devil, and the nurses were the devil, and they were all out to get her. And I explained to her that they were only asking her standard questions that they ask in an Independent Medical Examination; that -- the history of her injuries and how she obtained the injuries. And she was very defensive. And they asked us to leave because she was so irate.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you leave?
Mary Holzer: Yes, I took her out.
The Court: Counsel? Let's take our break.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh. Yes, Your Honor.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Holzer, you indicated that your law firm was representing the Arvizo family in a lawsuit against J.C. Penney, right?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was a civil lawsuit, correct?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: That was a lawsuit in which the Arvizo family were seeking money from J.C. Penney, correct?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And the money they were seeking was allegedly based upon personal injuries they claim they had received from J.C. Penney security guards, right?
Mr. Zonen: Objection, Your Honor. Leading.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you please speak into the microphone to your right, if you can. That one, yeah.
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Thanks. The purpose of medical examinations was to determine the extent of injuries, correct?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Without injuries, there would be no claim for money, right?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did Ms. Arvizo ever tell you that she was the victim of domestic abuse by her husband?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding her husband's name was David?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was David also a claimant, a plaintiff, in that lawsuit?
Mary Holzer: Originally.
Mr. Mesereau: And originally was David also suing J.C. Penney for damages?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And the children, Star and Gavin, were also suing for damages, true?
Mary Holzer: True.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did Ms. Arvizo ever tell you that her children were abused by David, to your knowledge?
Mary Holzer: Determine “abused”.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever use the word?
Mary Holzer: She never used the word “abused”.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she say the children were mistreated by David?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, at one point in the course of your responsibilities, you were shown photographs of Janet with bruises, true?
Mary Holzer: True.
Mr. Mesereau: And who first showed you those photographs?
Mary Holzer: I believe Anthony Ranieri.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding those photographs were to be used in the lawsuit against J.C. Penney?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that the photographs were supposed to show injuries inflicted on Ms. Arvizo by J.C. Penney security guards?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever have a chance to discuss with Janet Arvizo those photographs?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did she tell you about those photographs while that lawsuit was going on?
Mary Holzer: She told me that the bruises that were on her body were inflicted by David that night after the altercation at J.C. Penney's.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was your response to her telling you that?
Mary Holzer: Well, it scared me.
Mr. Mesereau: Why?
Mary Holzer: Well, I represent my law firm, and when a client admits to fraud, it's kind of scary.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you say anything to Mrs. Arvizo in response?
Mary Holzer: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you say to Ms. Arvizo about that?
Mary Holzer: I told her that she couldn't do that, that that was wrong, and that, you know, she needed to retract that, and that she needed to speak to Mr. Rothstein about it.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you tell her that was fraudulent?
Mary Holzer: I don't know whether I used that word. I told her it was wrong; that “You can't do that”.
Mr. Mesereau: And --
Mary Holzer: I was very upset.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did she say to you in response?
Mary Holzer: She said, “Well, don't say anything to anybody”, because she was at that time in a custody battle with David, and that -- I -- I don't know. I'm sorry. I lost my train of thought.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she threaten you?
Mary Holzer: Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: How?
Mary Holzer: She told me that David's brother Ray is in the Mexican mafia and runs drugs between Los Angeles and Las Vegas, and that she knows where I live, because she had been to my house on several occasions, and they would come and kill me and my nine-year-old daughter.
Mr. Mesereau: Did this terrify you?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever tell anyone at the law firm about what Janet had told you?
Mary Holzer: No, I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: And why didn't you do that?
Mary Holzer: Because she told me not to.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have any additional discussions with Janet Arvizo about these fake injuries?
Mary Holzer: Well, her injuries weren't fake. She had injuries.
Mr. Mesereau: Or, let me rephrase it. Did you ever have any further discussions with her about the fake claims against J.C. Penney?
Mary Holzer: I did. I tried to get her to speak to Mr. Rothstein about it. I asked her if I could speak to Mr. Rothstein about it, because we run a clean law firm, and I really didn't feel that we should be involved in something like that. And she proceeded to call me daily and tell me she had told David, and David was raging mad, and that he was going to come after me, and that I better watch my back.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times do you think Janet Arvizo threatened you and your daughter?
Mary Holzer: I'd say about eight, nine times.
Mr. Mesereau: Are there any other -- are there any other things you haven't described that she said to you when she threatened you?
Mary Holzer: She just said she was scared for me and my daughter; that she didn't want to see anything bad happen to us, because she considered me her dear friend.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you consider her to be your dear friend?
Mary Holzer: Not at all. I was just doing my job.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point did you learn that Janet Arvizo and her family obtained approximately $152,000 from that lawsuit?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that that money was distributed to various members of the family?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And at some point, did you stop representing Janet Arvizo, “you” being the firm?
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Mesereau: At some point, did the lawsuit end?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did your responsibilities as far as the Arvizos go end at some point?
Mary Holzer: Once I made the blocked minors' accounts with the bank.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you mean by that?
Mary Holzer: Well, it's my responsibility to -- when a child under the age of 18 gets a settlement, it's my duties to purchase certificates of deposit at the bank so that they roll over until they're 18.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Janet Arvizo ever talk to you about Michael Jackson?
Mary Holzer: Oh, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did she say about him?
Mary Holzer: She would invite me and my daughter to come with them, and how wonderful he was, and what a great time my daughter would have at his ranch.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever accept her invitation?
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Janet Arvizo ever tell you anything about her children being in acting classes?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did she say?
Mary Holzer: She told me she had them in comedy -- stand-up comedy classes and acting classes. I don't know how far in detail you want me to go.
Mr. Mesereau: I do.
Mary Holzer: All the way?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object to the narrative form of the answer.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: What did Janet Arvizo tell you about her children learning to act?
Mary Holzer: She said she wanted them to become good actors so she could tell them what to say and how to behave.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever say anything to you about Gavin getting his stories straight in the J.C. Penney case?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did she say?
Mary Holzer: She said she wasn't worried. This was at the Independent Medical Examination for psychiatric of all three, Gavin, Star and Janet. And when we were at the doctor's office, she was very concerned about them completing general forms, you know, like, “Generally do you feel happy?” “Generally do you feel sad?” You know, “What kind of days” -- “How do you feel when you wake up?” Those kind of forms. And she refused to have the children fill them out. And then she wanted to participate in the medical examinations with the doctor and the children. And I asked her, you know, I said, you know, “It doesn't work that way”. You know, “The doctor sees the children on their own”. You know, “You can't go in there”. And she said, “Well, I'm pretty sure Gavin will get the story straight, but I'm not sure Star will remember what we practiced and what I told him to say”.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, at any point in time, did Janet Arvizo ever tell you words to the effect, “Call up J.C. Penney or their lawyers and tell them I lied under oath”?
Mary Holzer: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: At any time did Janet Arvizo ever tell you words to the effect, “Call up J.C. Penney or their lawyers and give the money back”?
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Janet Arvizo ever tell you words to the effect, “Let the other side know I perjured myself”?
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Mesereau: I have no further questions.
The Court: Cross?
Mr. Zonen: Thank you.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Ms. Holzer, during the time that you were working at this law firm and this case was in your office, you had an opportunity to be able to have numerous conversations with Miss Arvizo and other members of her family; is that correct?
Mary Holzer: That is correct.
Mr. Zonen: And your file became extensive at your law firm; is that right?
Mary Holzer: Yes, sir.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And it included a lot of the information about the incident and depositions and police reports and medical reports; is that correct?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: In fact, the Arvizos never got anything close to $152,000, did they?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: Is that true?
The Court: You may answer.
Mary Holzer: Okay. Well, I believe that was the gross settlement.
Mr. Zonen: And from that settlement was spent all the expenses, was paid for the expenses; is that correct?
Mary Holzer: Some of it was expenses. There was attorney fees. There was expert fees.
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Mary Holzer: The children received a portion.
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Mary Holzer: And David rejected any portion. And, you know, he had dropped out of the case, so....
Mr. Zonen: David Arvizo was paid nothing?
Mary Holzer: Paid nothing.
Mr. Zonen: Are you certain?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Janet Arvizo got about $32,000; is that right?
Mary Holzer: I would say that's about right.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Gavin Arvizo got about what, $28,000?
Mary Holzer: I think 25 maybe.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. 25. That went into an account and will stay there until he's 18?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: Star Arvizo got about 5,000, 6,000?
Mary Holzer: I think it was eight.
Mr. Zonen: About $8,000?
Mary Holzer: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: That was because of a concussion that he had; is that right?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: Gavin's injury was a broken elbow, fractured elbow; is that correct?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: And that is an injury that he received at that particular event; is that right?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Well, your law firm certainly represented that that was an injury that was received in the J.C. Penney's event?
Mary Holzer: That's what we were told at the time.
Mr. Zonen: And that was the basis of the injury; is that correct?
Mary Holzer: That's what we were told at the time.
Mr. Zonen: And in fact, did he have a broken elbow?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: Did Janet ever tell you that David broke that elbow?
Mary Holzer: Janet told me that David pushed Gavin and Star away from her when they tried to protect her --
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Mary Holzer: -- as he was beating Janet that evening.
Mr. Zonen: All right. But do you remember telling us in an interview at your attorney's office --
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- that Janet did not tell you --
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Zonen: -- that Gavin -- hold on, that Gavin's injury was caused by her husband?
Mary Holzer: No, she did not tell me that.
Mr. Zonen: At any time?
Mary Holzer: At any time.
Mr. Zonen: All right. So you're telling us that at some later time she told you that her injuries were caused by her husband?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: Now, among the information that you had in your law firm was the information about the arrest and release of both David and Janet Arvizo from county jail; is that right?
Mary Holzer: Could you repeat that, please?
Mr. Zonen: At the time of their arrest on that date, back in 1998, and I believe this was on August 27th, 1998, the date of the incident at J.C. Penney's, both of them were arrested and taken to jail; is that right?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Janet was released a few hours before David, and David was released just after midnight; is that correct?
Mary Holzer: That sounds correct.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Janet checked into the ER room about an hour and ten minutes later after David's release; is that right?
Mary Holzer: Not to my knowledge.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: You have medical records from that, don't you?
Mary Holzer: Well, yeah, but I haven't looked at them in years.
Mr. Zonen: All right. I understand that. But it is true that Janet went to the ER room that night after her release and after the release of her husband?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Are you familiar -- are you aware of whether or not she sought medical treatment that night?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
Mary Holzer: No, I believe she sought medical treatment the next day.
Mr. Zonen: Would the next day be after midnight?
Mary Holzer: I guess so.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; argumentative.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: You don't know how long it was?
Mary Holzer: I don't know the hour.
Mr. Zonen: All right. But do you know how much time went by from the time of David's release to the time that she checked herself into a clinic?
Mary Holzer: No, I do not.
Mr. Zonen: If you were to learn it was an only an hour, would that be consistent with her statement to you that it was David who beat her up and caused those injuries?
Mary Holzer: Well, no. Maybe. I don't know.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did she tell you, in fact, during this conversation where she revealed to you that it was her husband who inflicted those injuries, did she tell you that the children were there?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, you know that the children, in fact, were taken from J.C. Penney's by their grandparents?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how the children left J.C. Penney's?
Mary Holzer: No, I do not.
Mr. Zonen: You know that the children were at J.C. Penney's at the time of this incident?
Mary Holzer: Yes, they were.
Mr. Zonen: And in fact, they were two of the complainants, two of the plaintiffs in this lawsuit?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: Both of them were injured; is that correct?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And that was the cause of action for a settlement of this case; is that right?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: Now, did you ever ask her how the children left J.C. Penney's given the fact that she and her husband were arrested?
Mary Holzer: No, I did not.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever ask her how these children came back into her possession in time for her to be beaten in their presence?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
Mr. Zonen: I asked if she asked.
Mr. Mesereau: Relevance.
The Court: The objection's overruled. You may answer.
Mr. Zonen: Did you ever?
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did she tell you that she went home and picked up the children first?
Mary Holzer: She told me that when they got -- she said when they got home -- these were her words. When they got home, David was raging mad and accused her of creating the chaos at J.C. Penney's and Tower Records.
Mr. Zonen: Which home are we talking about?
Mary Holzer: I'm not sure.
Mr. Zonen: Did she have more than one residence she stayed at at the time?
Mary Holzer: Well, they lived someplace prior to where they lived later in the case.
Mr. Zonen: All right. This was not the Soto Street address?
Mary Holzer: I don't believe so.
Mr. Zonen: All right. But they had a separate residence at the time?
Mary Holzer: Well, they lived somewhere.
Mr. Zonen: But do you know if they went to the grandparents' residence in El Monte?
Mary Holzer: I don't believe so, no. They were living on their own, because they had a neighbor that you had to call because they didn't have a telephone.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, these children were small at the time, weren't they?
Mary Holzer: Star's pretty hefty. He's -- he was a --
Mr. Zonen: Let me ask that question. I meant young. They were young?
Mary Holzer: They were young, yeah.
Mr. Zonen: They were seven and eight, weren't they?
Mary Holzer: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: Now, seven- and eight-year-olds taken away from J.C. Penney's would have been taken from J.C. Penney's by some adult; is that right?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Calls for speculation and no foundation.
The Court: Foundation, sustained.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Well, your understanding is that an adult came and picked them up while their parents went to jail?
Mary Holzer: I have no understanding. I have no understanding of any of that.
Mr. Zonen: Do you know how they joined up with their children that night in the period of time from the time of the release of David Arvizo from jail to the time that she checked herself into a clinic?
Mary Holzer: No, I do not.
Mr. Zonen: But she told you that the children were present when David went into a rage; is that right?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: So she ended up back in the presence of both of the children?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: And then David got angry and inflicted injuries?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: Now, you've seen the photographs of her injuries, haven't you?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. They were photographs that were furnished to your law firm at some time later; is that right?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: And your law firm did not become involved in this case until after the criminal matter had long been dismissed; is that true?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: So there was no pending criminal matter at all by the time she became involved in your law firm and this suit started; is that right?
Mary Holzer: That is correct.
Mr. Zonen: Isn't it true that in those injuries that were shown to you, those injuries on those photographs, they go from the bottom of each leg right at the ankle, all the way up to the top of each thigh, both front and back, up to close to the buttocks on both legs? Is that true?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: And is it true that the injuries on her arms go all the way from the wrist, all the way to the shoulder on each arm, both front and back; is that true?
Mary Holzer: That is correct.
Mr. Zonen: And it is true that they are rather large, substantial black and blue marks --
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- that extend all the way from literally the wrist to the shoulder on both arms, and large, substantial black and blue marks that go all the way from the ankle to the buttocks on both legs? Is that true?
Mary Holzer: That's true.
Mr. Zonen: In addition, there was an injury to her face; is that true?
Mary Holzer: I don't recall.
Mr. Zonen: In addition, there was an injury to her wrist; is that right?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And that would be consistent with somebody putting handcuffs on her at the time of a struggle; is that right?
Mary Holzer: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: In fact, all of those injuries that you saw depicted in those photographs are completely consistent with her being forced down to the ground by three or four different people who are either on top of her, using their knees to put pressure on the backs of her legs, the front of her legs, and on her arms and wrists; is that right?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
Mary Holzer: That's what I believe --
Mr. Mesereau: Calls for speculation; lack of foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Did you believe, based on your observation of those injuries, that they were perfectly consistent with what you were representing in your lawsuit?
Mary Holzer: At that time I did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, did she at a later time come to you and ask you to go with her to an attorney named Michael Manning?
Mary Holzer: Did he own the cigar shop? If he owned a cigar shop, yes. I don't remember his name.
Mr. Zonen: Do you remember telling us in an interview that she came to you and asked you to go with her to her --
Mary Holzer: Divorce attorney.
Mr. Zonen: -- family law lawyer?
Mary Holzer: Her what?
Mr. Zonen: Family law lawyer.
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. And she showed you injuries; is that right?
Mary Holzer: Yes. Well, she showed them to me in my office.
Mr. Zonen: These were not injuries sustained in the J.C. Penney's suit?
Mary Holzer: This was after the case was settled.
Mr. Zonen: This was years and years later?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. But you described injuries that are very consistent, in your opinion, with the injuries that she received in these photographs?
Mary Holzer: They looked exactly the same.
Mr. Zonen: They're identical injuries?
Mary Holzer: Pretty much, except for the handcuffs.
Mr. Zonen: All right. So she had bruises that were intense and huge and deep blue that went all the way from the ankle to her buttocks, the front of her leg, the back of her leg, both legs; is that right?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: She had injuries that went all the way from her wrist to her shoulders, the front of her arms, the back of her arms, both arms; is that correct?
Mary Holzer: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: It was identical to the injuries that you had seen three years earlier?
Mary Holzer: How identical do you want me to get? They were very consistent.
Mr. Zonen: But they were as close as you can describe in the sense that they were consistent, large, very large, very deep, dark blue, black and blue marks, bruises --
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: -- that ran, again, all the way from her ankles to her buttocks, and all the way from her wrist to her shoulders in a consistent fashion to those --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Pardon me.
Mr. Zonen: -- to those photographs that you saw three years earlier; is that true?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. Foundation and misstates the evidence.
Mr. Zonen: She saw it.
The Court: The objection is overruled. Do you understand the question?
Mr. Zonen: Is that true?
Mary Holzer: That's true.
Mr. Zonen: Now, you then went with her to an attorney in Pasadena; is that right?
Mary Holzer: Well, I first asked her to speak to Mr. Rothstein. First I asked her if I could take her to a shelter, her and the children, because she should not subject herself or her children to that.
Mr. Zonen: Miss Holzer, did you go with her to an attorney in Pasadena?
Mary Holzer: Yes, I did.
Mr. Zonen: That attorney was represented to you by her as being her family law lawyer?
Mary Holzer: That is correct.
Mr. Zonen: She was already separated from David Arvizo at that time?
Mary Holzer: That is correct.
Mr. Zonen: And you went, and you went up into the office with her; is that right?
Mary Holzer: That is correct.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, this is a person who had threatened to kill you and your child?
Mary Holzer: No, she didn't threaten to kill me. She threatened to have the Mexican mafia, her brother-in-law, kill me.
Mr. Zonen: But she -- you believed that she was the person who was going to be instrumental in arranging the assassination of your child; is that right?
Mary Holzer: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: So --
Mary Holzer: Well, no, she said it was her husband.
Mr. Zonen: Well, ma'am, did you just tell Mr. Mesereau on direct -- wait till the question is asked. Did you just tell Mr. Mesereau on direct exam that she had threatened to have your child killed?
Mary Holzer: She warned me.
Mr. Zonen: All right. So you're telling us now that she did not threaten to have your child killed?
Mary Holzer: What she said was David is going to send his brother over to take me and my daughter out.
Mr. Zonen: All right. So you -- you did not interpret that as meaning that she was going to --
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Zonen: -- arrange to have that done?
Mary Holzer: Not her. She was saying that -- she had told David that he had beat her that night and pushed the children out of the way when they tried to protect her.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, Mr. Mesereau asked you questions about whether or not she threatened to have your child killed, and you said, “Yes”.
Mary Holzer: I guess I misunderstood.
Mr. Zonen: You misunderstood his question?
Mary Holzer: I suppose I did.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Your testimony at this moment is she did not threaten to have your child killed; is that correct?
Mary Holzer: What she said was, “I'm worried for you and your child. I don't know what David's going to do. His brother's in the Mexican mafia. He runs drugs between Las Vegas and Los Angeles. David is mad that I told you that he beat me that day”.
Mr. Zonen: So this is a subsequent conversation to the first conversation that she had about --
Mary Holzer: That was every conversation. She said the same thing every time.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And now she comes back into the office after the lawsuit with J.C. Penney's has concluded; is that right?
Mary Holzer: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: You no longer have any business with Janet Arvizo whatsoever; is that right?
Mary Holzer: No, that is not correct. She still hadn't done the minors' compromise.
Mr. Zonen: All right. So she comes back to the office and she shows you now, in the privacy of your office, all of these injuries that David had inflicted on her; is that correct?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: Did she tell you that she was no longer with David at that point?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Did she tell you how it was that she -- that he inflicted those injuries on her if she was no longer with him?
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Zonen: Well, did you ask her that?
Mary Holzer: Well, she just said, “He”, you know, “came over, like he usually does, and beat me up again”.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And beat her from head to toe?
Mary Holzer: Head to toe, yeah. She said she'd be on the floor, and he'd be kicking her, stepping on her, kicking her, stepping on her.
Mr. Zonen: And you were very concerned about her well-being?
Mary Holzer: Yes, I was.
Mr. Zonen: So you went with her to her family law lawyer, and in fact, you told the family law lawyer that he should do something about this, because this is a terrible situation?
Mary Holzer: I did. I asked him if he was going to file a TRO.
Mr. Zonen: All right. A TRO would be a legal proceeding, a temporary restraining order; is that right?
Mary Holzer: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: Now, you did not feel that by doing that you would somehow activate David Arvizo's wrath and cause your child to be murdered; is that right?
Mary Holzer: Well, at that point I was -- I felt bad for her. I mean, I felt bad for the kids.
Mr. Zonen: You were no longer concerned about whether or not you and your child would be assassinated; is that true?
Mary Holzer: No, I was still worried.
Mr. Zonen: All right. You did not call the police?
Mary Holzer: No, I did not.
Mr. Zonen: You never called the police?
Mary Holzer: No, I did not.
Mr. Zonen: You worked for two attorneys that you'd been working for for about 15 years; is that right?
Mary Holzer: More than 20.
Mr. Zonen: More than 20. And you understand that between an attorney and a client, there's a confidential relationship; is that true?
Mary Holzer: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: And you could have gone to either one of those lawyers that you knew and say, “I'm now talking to you as a client, and this is in confidence”; is that right?
Mary Holzer: No, I didn't want to involve my boss.
Mr. Zonen: You didn't want to involve your boss, the person who's prosecuting the civil suit?
Mary Holzer: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: Ma'am, have you returned the money yet to J.C. Penney's?
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Zonen: The conversation that you had with Mr. Manning, that was his name; is that right?
Mary Holzer: I don't remember his name.
Mr. Zonen: But he's the attorney who has an office above a cigar store?
Mary Holzer: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: And you sat in that office with him and with Janet Arvizo?
Mary Holzer: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And you had her remove enough of her clothing in your presence so that he could see those injuries; is that right?
Mary Holzer: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: And you told him that he should do something about those injuries; is that right?
Mary Holzer: Yes. He's her family attorney.
Mr. Zonen: And you were pretty insistent about that; is that right?
Mary Holzer: Of course.
Mr. Zonen: And you did that knowing that that would activate some kind of a legal action against David Arvizo?
Mary Holzer: She already had a legal action against him.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell Mr. Manning, or whoever that lawyer was, that you did not want to have your name included in any report? Did you tell him that?
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Zonen: Did you tell him under no circumstances should he mention to the other party of that family law matter, David Arvizo, or to David Arvizo's lawyer, that you were in any way instrumental in having those injuries depicted to him?
Mary Holzer: No. I was there about three minutes.
Mr. Zonen: You were there long enough for him to see the injuries?
Mary Holzer: Yeah.
Mr. Zonen: And you were there long enough to give him direction as to what he should be doing on behalf of this woman; is that right?
Mary Holzer: I wouldn't say give him direction. I just said, you know, “What are you going to do? Are you going to file a TRO?” I mean, it's just common sense.
Mr. Zonen: Ma'am, are you taking any medications at this time?
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Zonen: I have no further questions.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Prosecutor Zonen asked you questions about those photographs that show injuries on Ms. Arvizo, okay?
Mary Holzer: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know that Ms. Arvizo had those photos taken a week after the J.C. Penney incident?
Mary Holzer: No, I don't, because she came to our office well after the fact.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Janet Arvizo ever show you her -- oops, excuse me. Did Janet ever show you her booking photos at the jail which show no injuries?
Mr. Zonen: Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence, and leading.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see the booking photos at the jail which were taken when Janet Arvizo was arrested the day of the J.C. Penney events?
Mary Holzer: I believe I did. She was sitting in a chair. I'm not sure. It was many years ago. I'm not sure.
Mr. Mesereau: They don't show any injuries, do they?
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever asking her, “When did you take the photograph that shows the injuries?” that Prosecutor Zonen just described?
Mary Holzer: No, I never asked her.
Mr. Mesereau: And just to clarify, how long after the J.C. Penney incident did your law firm get involved with the Arvizos, if you know?
Mary Holzer: I would say nine months maybe.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you talked about a minor's compromise, and would you please explain what that is?
Mary Holzer: Well, when a minor under the age of 18 receives any form of settlement or financial gain - I believe they call it the Jimmy Coogan Law - it's to be blocked until the minor becomes 18, unless it's an annuity.
Mr. Mesereau: And does that mean the money sits in an account and earns interest for the child until they turn 18?
Mary Holzer: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And is the account in the child's name?
Mary Holzer: The account is in the mother's name as legal guardian of the child.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So to your knowledge, was that account in Janet Arvizo's name?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So Janet Arvizo would have had full notice and knowledge about the existence of that account, correct?
Mary Holzer: Oh, yes. She went with me to the bank.
Mr. Mesereau: There's no question that Janet Arvizo knew about the existence of that account, correct?
Mary Holzer: Yes, she knew about the existence of that account.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you help her set up that account?
Mary Holzer: Yes, I did. I filled all the paperwork out myself.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, was that account earning interest for Gavin?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there also an account for Star?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you help set that account up for Janet?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, was that account in Janet's name?
Mary Holzer: Yes, it's Janet Arvizo as legal guardian of Gavin Arvizo, a minor.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And which bank were those accounts set up at, if you know?
Mary Holzer: City National Bank.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, was it part of your responsibilities at the firm to continue to gather information about those accounts after they were set up?
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did the accounts then simply appear in Janet's name, right?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And the statements would go to Janet, correct?
Mary Holzer: Correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And Janet would essentially take control of those accounts, right?
Mary Holzer: Well, she can't touch them. She can't take the money out.
Mr. Mesereau: But she's in charge of them, right?
Mary Holzer: Yeah, she gets -- the statement is in her name.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. So approximately when do you think those accounts were set up?
Mary Holzer: It was a long time before I could get her in. I really had to really get on her. As a matter of fact, the checks had expired and I had to have the checks reissued.
Mr. Mesereau: And you set up the account for her?
Mary Holzer: Right. And I had to set the accounts up again.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she tell you where to send the statements?
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know where they were sent?
Mary Holzer: To her mother's address in El Monte.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she tell you why she wanted them sent to that address instead of the home address?
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you think she was trying to hide those accounts?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; speculative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Janet ever tell you she had used her mother's account to funnel moneys?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object to the term “funnel moneys”, argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Janet ever tell you about her mother's bank account?
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever know what bank her mother's accounts were at?
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever tell you about a Washington Mutual account?
Mary Holzer: Gavin's donation account?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Mary Holzer: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as exceeding the scope of the cross-examination
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: When did you last talk to Janet Arvizo?
Mr. Zonen: Objection; exceeding the scope of the cross-examination.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Mary Holzer: She called me, I would say, about three, four months ago.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know why?
Mary Holzer: She wanted to be friends.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you say?
Mary Holzer: I said I was very busy.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she say anything else?
Mary Holzer: She asked me to call her. She'd like to get together and maybe have a girls' weekend. And that she had just had a baby and she was remarried. And I felt like --
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as to her personal feelings as irrelevant.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she say anything about this case at any time?
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she say anything about the J.C. Penney case?
Mary Holzer: Well, yes, she did. I rephrase that. Yes, she did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she talk about the J.C. Penney case?
Mary Holzer: No, she talked about this case.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she remind you of her threats?
Mary Holzer: No. She proceeded to tell me that Michael Jackson was no longer her savior. He was now the devil.
Mr. Mesereau: Did that remind you of her calling the doctor the devil?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as leading and argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the first time you heard her use the word “devil”?
Mary Holzer: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she use that word many times?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as exceeding the scope of the cross-examination.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: I have no further questions.
Mr. Zonen: I have no further questions.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down.
Mary Holzer: Thank you.
The Court: Call your next witness. Do you want to check that microphone? Is there a connection that -- look at the connection. There's something causing static there.
The Bailiff: I can turn it down a little.
The Court: It didn't do that before. I don't think it's the volume. I think the lawyers have beat my poor microphone to death.
Bailiff Cortez: If you want, we can switch this one out with that one.
The Bailiff: We can switch microphones, if that's all right.
The Court: Okay. Yeah, try that. (To Mr. Ranieri) If you'd just stand there for a moment, we're switching microphones.
Anthony Ranieri: No problem.
The Court: Why don't you -- don't plug that in there.
Bailiff Cortez: No?
The Court: Let's leave that alone and let's have a technician look at it on the break. Take a seat.
Bailiff Cortez: No, not yet, Your Honor.
The Court: Test that for me.
Mr. Mesereau: Hello, hello, hello.
The Bailiff: It's not working.
The Court: Okay. That's perfect. (Laughter.)
The Court: Let's put the other --
Mr. Mesereau: Hello.
The Court: Put the other microphone back and have a technician come over on the break, please.
Bailiff Cortez: Okay, it's off. So make sure you turn it back on.
The Bailiff: It is the connection.
The Court: We'll get some help here on the break.
Mr. Mesereau: Hello, hello, hello.
Mr. Zonen: Mr. Mesereau was there last. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mesereau: Hello. I'm not going to touch it, Your Honor.
The Bailiff: Okay. No touching.
The Court: Would you have the technicians come and check?
The Bailiff: Yes.
The Court: Now, I'm sorry, raise your right hand.
Message: ANTHONY RANIERI Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Anthony Ranieri: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Anthony Ranieri: My name is Anthony Ranieri. R-a-n-i-e-r-i.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning, Mr. Ranieri.
Anthony Ranieri: Good morning.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know someone named Janet Arvizo?
Anthony Ranieri: I do.
Mr. Mesereau: And when did you first meet her?
Anthony Ranieri: My best recollection was probably in 1998.
Mr. Mesereau: And what were the circumstances under which you met her?
Anthony Ranieri: I was contacted by her and her family relating to a lawsuit against J.C. Penney's.
Mr. Mesereau: And what kind of work do you do?
Anthony Ranieri: I'm a personal injury attorney.
Mr. Mesereau: What kind of work were you doing at that time?
Anthony Ranieri: Personal injury trial work.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you meet with Janet Arvizo?
Anthony Ranieri: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Approximately when did you meet with her?
Anthony Ranieri: At the same time that I got the first call. It was at a colleague's office, and I met her and two children at that time.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you discuss with her?
Anthony Ranieri: Your Honor, I just want to make sure that since I have not been served with any of the orders concerning the waiver of the privilege, and it's my understanding that the privilege, as between myself and all of the family members, has been waived unconditionally, and if that's the case, I'll go ahead and proceed.
The Court: Can you help me on that?
Mr. Mesereau: I believe that was the Court's order.
The Court: All right. Counsel, you agree? Who's on this case?
Mr. Auchincloss: That's mine, Your Honor. And we will agree with that.
The Court: All right. I will find there is a total waiver of the confidential attorney-client privilege, and you may testify.
Anthony Ranieri: Thank you, Your Honor.
The Court: I'll make it different. And I'll order you to testify.
Anthony Ranieri: Thank you. Could you please repeat your question?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. When you first met with Janet Arvizo, what was discussed?
Anthony Ranieri: She related to me the circumstances of the incident that formed the lawsuit against J.C. Penney's in which there was an altercation between herself, the children, her husband and J.C. Penney's security guards.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was this?
Anthony Ranieri: The altercation or the meeting?
Mr. Mesereau: The meeting.
Anthony Ranieri: I believe in 1998. That's my best recollection.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, how long after these alleged events happened did you have this meeting?
Anthony Ranieri: Probably within a couple of weeks. That was my recollection.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you agree to represent her?
Anthony Ranieri: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you represent the Arvizo family in the J.C. Penney's lawsuit?
Anthony Ranieri: I did as a member of the law firm, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What firm was that?
Anthony Ranieri: Feldman & Rothstein.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall attending a deposition of Janet Arvizo?
Anthony Ranieri: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: And in a deposition, someone testifies under oath, correct?
Anthony Ranieri: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Someone is asked questions by the other side with a court reporter, true?
Anthony Ranieri: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: And at the beginning of the questioning, the person being deposed is told they are testifying under oath, right?
Anthony Ranieri: That's correct.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it your understanding that Janet Arvizo was testifying under oath, under penalty of perjury, in that deposition?
Anthony Ranieri: It was my understanding and my instruction to her.
Mr. Mesereau: And did she agree to abide by the oath in that deposition?
Anthony Ranieri: I -- my recollection is that in the deposition, when she was sworn by the reporter, that she understood the meaning of the oath she was taking.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall in that deposition, under oath, Janet Arvizo denying that she'd ever been beaten by her husband David?
Anthony Ranieri: I don't specifically recall that question. But I do remember in general that that was -- that she always had denied that, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And to your knowledge, did she always maintain that any physical injuries she had had come from J.C. Penney's security guards?
Anthony Ranieri: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever tell you that wasn't true?
Anthony Ranieri: No, she did not.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn at some point that wasn't true?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Foundation; hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall in that deposition Janet Arvizo saying that she was fondled approximately 25 times by J.C. Penney's security guards on that particular day?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Hearsay; relevance; and Court's order.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Anthony Ranieri: Yes, I recall that.
Mr. Mesereau: And had she ever told you that before?
Anthony Ranieri: She had not.
Mr. Mesereau: Was that the first time you ever heard Janet tell that story?
Anthony Ranieri: It was.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times do you think you had met her -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. How many times do you think you had discussed these alleged events with Janet before that deposition?
Anthony Ranieri: No less than 25. I talked to her quite often.
Mr. Mesereau: And you're saying that in those approximately 25 discussions, she never told you about her being fondled 25 times by J.C. Penney security guards?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. Asked and answered; argumentative.
The Court: Asked and answered, sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you surprised when she said that under oath?
Anthony Ranieri: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall ever learning about a fund-raiser for Gavin Arvizo?
Anthony Ranieri: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you learn about that fund-raiser?
Anthony Ranieri: I believe all of my recollection is that Janet informed me that there was some sort of fund-raiser going on to raise funds for Gavin's medical treatment and living expenses.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you invited to the fund-raiser?
Anthony Ranieri: No. I don't recall it being a formal fund-raiser. I thought it was just sort of a solicitation of money.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ask you for money directly?
Anthony Ranieri: She did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you give her any money?
Anthony Ranieri: I did not.
Mr. Mesereau: I have no further questions.
The Court: Cross-examine?
Mr. Auchincloss: No questions, Your Honor.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down. Call your next witness.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor, the defense will call Miss Karen Brando.
The Court: Come forward. When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing. Face the clerk here and raise your right hand.
Message: KAREN BRANDO Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Karen Brando: Yes.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Karen Brando: My name is Karen Brando. K-a-r-e-n, B-r-a-n-d-o.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good morning, Mrs. Brando.
Karen Brando: Good morning.
Mr. Mesereau: Mrs. Brando --
The Court: Your mike.
Mr. Mesereau: Oh. Okay. Pardon me.
Mr. Mesereau: Mrs. Brando, are you related to Marlon Brando?
Karen Brando: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How so?
Karen Brando: Daughter-in-law.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And do you have any children?
Karen Brando: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who are they?
Karen Brando: Faustif, Franco, Shane, Nelson and Prudence.
Mr. Mesereau: And have you ever been to Neverland Ranch?
Karen Brando: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times do you think you've been there?
Karen Brando: Several. Maybe 10, 15.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know the fellow seated at counsel table on my right?
Karen Brando: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who is he?
Karen Brando: Michael Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Is he a friend of yours?
Karen Brando: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet a person named Janet Arvizo?
Karen Brando: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when you met Janet Arvizo?
Karen Brando: It was a couple years ago at the ranch.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you staying at the ranch?
Karen Brando: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, was Janet staying at the ranch?
Karen Brando: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall where you met Janet Arvizo at the ranch?
Karen Brando: In the kitchen.
Mr. Mesereau: And what do you recall her doing in the kitchen?
Karen Brando: She came up to me and told me she was going home with me.
Mr. Mesereau: She told you she was going home with you?
Karen Brando: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Is this the first time you ever spoke to her?
Karen Brando: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were you surprised by that comment?
Karen Brando: No, because I was going with the driver.
Mr. Mesereau: How long had you been at the ranch at that point?
Karen Brando: Two days.
Mr. Mesereau: And were your children there as well?
Karen Brando: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who of your children were at the ranch?
Karen Brando: Prudence was there. And I'm not sure if Shane was there.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, how old was Prudence at that point?
Karen Brando: Seven.
Mr. Mesereau: And how about Shane?
Karen Brando: 14.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And had you arranged or had someone arranged for a driver to take you home?
Karen Brando: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how was that arranged, if you remember?
Karen Brando: My husband Miko came up to me and told me that he was going to stay and that Gary would drive me home.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was your husband Miko at the ranch at that point?
Karen Brando: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. This wasn't the first time you'd visited Neverland, right?
Karen Brando: No.
Mr. Mesereau: You'd been there many times before this?
Karen Brando: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: So what were you doing in the kitchen when Janet Arvizo came up to you?
Karen Brando: I was standing -- I was just standing there. I was standing kind of in the hallway right between the kitchen and the breakfast nook.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know about what time of day this was?
Karen Brando: It was early evening, around six o'clock.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall the date being March 12th, 2003?
Karen Brando: I don't remember.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall if it was March of 2003? Don't know?
Karen Brando: I'm sorry.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. All right. So Janet Arvizo came up to you and said, “I'm going home with you”?
Karen Brando: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And had you met her any other time before that?
Karen Brando: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she introduce herself?
Karen Brando: No.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you say when she -- when this stranger walked up and said, “I'm going home with you”?
Karen Brando: I didn't say anything to her. I couldn't. I wasn't driving.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you and she have a conversation?
Karen Brando: No.
Mr. Mesereau: How long did she talk to you about going home?
Karen Brando: She just told me she was going home with me.
Mr. Mesereau: And after she said that, what do you recall her doing?
Karen Brando: She just walked off.
Mr. Mesereau: And what did you do after that?
Karen Brando: I went to Miko and told him I didn't want her going home with me. But he said, “It's okay. Just make sure she gets dropped off at her house first so she doesn't know where we live”.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you go home that evening?
Karen Brando: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she go with you?
Karen Brando: No, she came up to me about an hour later and said she changed her mind, she was going to stay.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you say anything to her in response to her statement?
Karen Brando: Nothing.
Mr. Mesereau: Can you describe Janet Arvizo's demeanor when you first met her?
Karen Brando: I watched her in the kitchen and she was very abrupt. She was very hyper, demanding. Someone that you don't trust.
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to the last --
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Sneddon: Move to strike.
The Court: It's stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she demand anything of you?
Karen Brando: Just to go home with me.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How much time elapsed, if you remember, between the time she came up to you and said, “I'm going home with you”, and when she came up to you and said, “I've changed my mind. I'm staying”?
Karen Brando: About an hour.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Can you describe her demeanor when she came up to you and said she was going to stay?
Karen Brando: Calmer. She was calmer than she was earlier. Earlier it was like she was frantic.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see her after that, that moment?
Karen Brando: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Ever talk to her after that moment?
Karen Brando: No.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions.
Mr. Sneddon: No questions.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down.
Mr. Sanger: We'll call Prudence Brando.
The Court: Please remain standing. Look over here and raise your right hand. Face the clerk.
Message: PRUDENCE BRANDO Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Prudence Brando: Yeah.
The Court: All right. You may be seated.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Prudence Brando: P-r-u-d-e-n-c-e.
Mr. Sanger: Okay? Last name okay?
The Court: That's fine.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Okay.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Prudence, hello. I'm going to ask you some questions, okay?
Prudence Brando: (Nods head up and down.)
Mr. Sanger: Now, we need you to talk right into that microphone on the right, right there, the one you're right in front of. Good. How old are you?
Prudence Brando: Nine.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And you go to school?
Prudence Brando: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. What grade are you in?
Prudence Brando: Fourth.
Mr. Sanger: Fourth grade?
Prudence Brando: (Nods head up and down.)
Mr. Sanger: Do you like it?
Prudence Brando: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Who's your dad?
Prudence Brando: Miko.
Mr. Sanger: And who's your mom?
Prudence Brando: Karen.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Did your mom just come into court here?
Prudence Brando: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, do you remember spending some time at Neverland Ranch?
Prudence Brando: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. How often do you go there?
Prudence Brando: A lot.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Do you know the gentleman seated right here?
Prudence Brando: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And who's that?
Prudence Brando: Michael.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Is he a friend of yours?
Prudence Brando: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. When you were at Neverland Ranch, do you recall some kids whose last name was Arvizo?
Prudence Brando: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: Do you remember their first names?
Prudence Brando: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: What are their first names?
Prudence Brando: Star and Gavin.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And did you see them around the ranch while you were there?
Prudence Brando: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Can you tell me what you remember them doing around the ranch?
Prudence Brando: Driving the golf carts and going on rides.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. How were they at driving the golf carts? What did they do with the golf carts?
Prudence Brando: They were crashing them.
Mr. Sanger: Now, you say “crashing them”. Was it like by mistake, or what did you think they were doing?
Prudence Brando: I think on purpose, because they were driving all crazy and going -- they were just driving crazy.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Did they ever say anything to you when they were driving the golf carts and they were -- let me ask you this: Did you ever see them crash the golf carts?
Prudence Brando: A couple of times.
Mr. Sanger: And what did they crash into; do you remember?
Prudence Brando: Like when they turned, they would, like, skin the side of it.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Do you know if the Arvizo kids, Star and Gavin, would hang out around the zoo sometimes?
Prudence Brando: Yes, they would.
Mr. Sanger: And were they good to the animals at the zoo?
Prudence Brando: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: They were okay? Did you see them at the theater?
Prudence Brando: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: What would you see them doing at the theater?
Prudence Brando: They would be watching movies and stuff.
Mr. Sanger: And did they get stuff while they were at the theater?
Prudence Brando: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: What would they get?
Prudence Brando: Like candy, popcorn.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And that was there for people to have, right?
Prudence Brando: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Did they go on the rides at the amusement park?
Prudence Brando: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: What would you see them doing on the rides?
Prudence Brando: Throwing candy off the rides.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Would they throw it at people?
Prudence Brando: No.
Mr. Sanger: Do you know -- when they were at the theater, do you remember them doing anything with the candy and popcorn while they were at the theater besides eating it?
Prudence Brando: No.
Mr. Sanger: Do you remember if they'd throw it or anything?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object as leading. He answered the question. It's asked and answered.
The Court: Sustained. I will allow some leading. That is an asked-and-answered question, so --
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Very well.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall the Arvizo kids, Star and Gavin, doing anything with the telephones that are in the theater?
Prudence Brando: No.
Mr. Sanger: Don't recall? Okay. Now, when you saw them doing stuff they weren't supposed to do, did you ever tell them to knock it off?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object to that question, the use of the words “they weren't supposed to do”.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sneddon: It's editorial.
Mr. Sanger: Did you ever see Star and Gavin doing anything they weren't supposed to do?
Prudence Brando: Sometimes.
Mr. Sanger: Did you ever talk to them about that? Did you ever say anything to them?
Prudence Brando: No.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall talking to Mr. Jackson at any time, to Michael? Did you ever tell Michael the kids were doing something?
Prudence Brando: No. I'd just hang out with him sometimes, but --
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Do you recall Davellin Arvizo? Do you know who she is?
Prudence Brando: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And is that the sister of Star and Gavin?
Prudence Brando: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall -- do you recall if Davellin used to tell Star and Gavin to stop doing things?
Prudence Brando: I don't think so, no.
Mr. Sanger: You don't recall? Okay. Okay. And then have you been in Michael's private room in his house?
Prudence Brando: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: And you know Prince and Paris, right?
Prudence Brando: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: Who are Prince and Paris?
Prudence Brando: His kids.
Mr. Sanger: Michael's kids?
Prudence Brando: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Have you gone in there with Prince and Paris?
Prudence Brando: Yeah.
Mr. Sanger: And what do you do when you go into his room?
Prudence Brando: He just showed us around his room.
Mr. Sanger: Did you watch T.V. in there?
Prudence Brando: Yeah, for a couple minutes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. All right. I have no further questions.
Mr. Sneddon: No questions.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down.
Mr. Sanger: May I have just a moment to see who's --
The Court: You may.
Mr. Sanger: We'll call Phillip Esplin to the stand.
The Court: When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing. Face the clerk over here. Raise your right hand.
Message: PHILLIP W. ESPLIN Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Phillip Esplin: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Phillip Esplin: My name is Phillip W. Esplin. E-s-p-l-i-n.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: May I proceed, Your Honor?
The Court: Yes, you may.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Dr. Esplin, what is your profession?
Phillip Esplin: I'm a forensic psychologist.
Mr. Sanger: All right. I'm going to ask you to move that right microphone up a little higher. Just bring it up higher, like that, and try to talk into the right microphone, if you can. All right. A forensic psychologist?
Phillip Esplin: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And what does a forensic psychologist do?
Phillip Esplin: It's a psychologist that tends to focus on psychological or social science issues that are related to various judicial proceedings. It could be a dependency matter, a juvenile court. It could be a competency to stand trial. It could be study relative to children and witnesses, things of that nature.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. And where do you practice? Where is your office right now?
Phillip Esplin: Phoenix, Arizona.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, I'd like you to go back and give us a brief description of your educational background starting with college.
Phillip Esplin: I have a bachelor's degree obtained in 1967. I then spent three years in the United States Marine Corps. When I was released from active duty, I went back to graduate school, obtained my master's degree in 1973. I continued on with my doctoral studies. Finished my doctoral dissertation in late summer of 1978. I took the national examination, psychology, in the fall of 1978, was licensed by the Arizona Board of Psychologist Examiners in November of 1978, and I've been licensed since that time. I did an internship in child psychology in Tempe, Arizona, in 1974-75.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Let me go back. What is your bachelor's degree in, what subject?
Phillip Esplin: Sociology was my major. Psychology was my minor.
Mr. Sanger: And your master's degree is in what subject?
Phillip Esplin: Psychology.
Mr. Sanger: And your Ph.D.?
Phillip Esplin: Psychology.
Mr. Sanger: Now, is that clinical psychology or --
Phillip Esplin: No, I came from a psychoeducational background. And my interest and dissertation had to do with studying brain-injured children, that may have had an injury, an acute injury or an injury secondary to a congenital condition. So I was interested in how children learn, how children -- to help them remember things that they learn.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And since 1974 and 19 -- I'm sorry, 1975, when you concluded your internship, how have you been engaged?
Phillip Esplin: My career's been divided into two parts. From beginning roughly 1976 until 1988, I worked predominantly in a clinical area. I worked with a hospital system where I had some responsibilities for a child program, inpatient program, an adolescent program. I also assessed and treated children that had been removed from their homes by the state for either sexual maltreatment, neglect or physical maltreatment. I also, during that period of time, worked extensively with the courts in Arizona relative to evaluating children and families that were going through a divorce. In 1988, I began my relationship with the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development in Washington, D.C. They began what's called The Child Witness Project, research project, which began the -- the planning began in 1988. We began the first field study in 1989. And that series of studies involves children ages 3 through 14 who may have been the victim of a crime or a witness to a crime. And I've participated as part of that team effort to try to understand how children go about accommodating adversity in an environment, how their memories operate, whether there's age effects of memory, and how can we develop procedures that will increase the accuracy of information that we can obtain from children during the course of an investigation.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So let's go back over this in just a little more detail. From 19 -- in 1974 and '75, when you did your internship, did that involve children?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And how did that involve children?
Phillip Esplin: I was involved in a re -- my internship was under the auspices of a federal demonstration project that was attempting to develop what's called engineered classrooms for mentally challenged children, for brain-injured children, for deaf children, and for children that were designated as severely emotionally disturbed.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, in part, your graduate education related to brain-injured children; is that right?
Phillip Esplin: Well, I -- my independent research, my dissertation, I was interested in developing a method for examining sensory suppression effects and if there's hemispheric damage. Once I got out and started practice, that got left, frankly, by the wayside.
Mr. Sanger: So after the internship, is it correct to say that you began to work more with children who were maltreated, or at least that became a -- allegedly maltreated or actually maltreated, that became a predominant part of your practice?
Phillip Esplin: Yes. There was -- I was the clinical director of a day-treatment program that was run by the State of Arizona. That program had 150 families in the program. Those children had been removed from their home and placed in a psychiatric facility. And the objective of the program was, where feasible, to return them home, or in the alternative, to consider parental termination and placement in a long-term either adoptive home or a -- what was called then a therapeutic foster home. The majority of those children had been maltreated in some capacity.
Mr. Sanger: And this would have been during your experience from 1976 to 1988?
Phillip Esplin: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So at that point you began to have -- go ahead and take your time. Get some water there first.
Phillip Esplin: Excuse me. I've got a little bit of a cold.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. At that point, you began to have fairly regular contact with children who either were or claimed to have been sexually abused; is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: Now, you mentioned in the course of this, that -- oh, thank you. You mentioned in the course of this that the -- some of the children were involved in legal proceedings, or maybe all of them?
Phillip Esplin: They all were involved in one way or another with legal proceedings.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And so the court was supervising what happened with these children pending a placement or some other resolution of their situation; is that right?
Phillip Esplin: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Now, in 1988, you talked about The National Institute of Child Health. Can you describe that in a little more detail? What is The National Institute of Child Health? I think there's more to the name than that, but --
Phillip Esplin: Well, there's National Institutes of Health. That's a government-sponsored series of research institutes. There's The Center For Medicine, The Center For Cancer, The Center For Retardation. Within it, The National Institute of Health, there's a section called the section on children's social and emotional development within the Institute on Child Health and Human Development.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Phillip Esplin: So it was within that section that The Child Witness Project was funded.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So you were working within that section on a child witness project?
Phillip Esplin: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And what specifically was the mission of this particular funded section?
Phillip Esplin: I had presented a pilot study at a NATO conference in 1988 in Italy in which I had compared two groups of children, one group in which we felt we had strong independent evidence that they had been sexually abused, a second group in which we felt that there was substantial indication they had not been abused. And I was interested in seeing to what degree could you develop information that would help you categorize those two groups. That field study then led to me going back, spending a couple of days with Dr. Lamb and his colleagues at NICHD, and out of that then came The Child Witness Project. What our mission has been is to work -- we conduct what's called field studies, and that's a little different than laboratory studies. Laboratory studies occur when you can control all the conditions in the laboratory. So you subject a child to certain experiences. You videotape it. You then can question them in various ways and you can measure precisely the accuracy that may come from different types of questions and so on.
Mr. Sanger: Let me interrupt you right there. That type of laboratory experiment does not lend itself to sexual abuse experimentation; is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: Well, it's -- it's very important work to establish theoretical principles about how memory operates. But you cannot recreate the circumstance in a laboratory that may exist for a child who has been subjected to sexual maltreatment. So the laboratory studies, in and of themselves, are insufficient. So it requires taking those principles in the laboratory about memory, motivation, how to question witnesses, and then apply it in field studies in which there are live investigations of potential crimes against children, and see how that data converges. The degree to which the principles in the laboratory you can replicate in the field, the more confidence you can have that your methods are sound.
Mr. Sanger: Now, in addition to the laboratory studies, you mentioned, then, the field studies. Can you describe the field studies?
Phillip Esplin: Those are studies that are conducted in cooperation with law enforcement and/or Child Protective Services. So we would go to a site, and we would spend X number of years there. We would be training the sex crime investigators in interviewing procedures. We work with them on trying to collect corroborating evidence, and we then measure how well that interview and investigative protocol works compared to whatever they were doing before we began our research. So we've been -- we just finished up a five-year project with the Salt Lake Police Department and the Utah Sheriff's Department or Salt Lake County Sheriff's Department. We've been in Israel nationally since 1990. We had a five-year project with the West Palm Beach Sheriff's Department, and with the Marian County Sheriff's Department. We have an ongoing project with The Children's Justice Center in Salt Lake, which is an advocacy center in which children are questioned and it's videotaped. And they are implementing our procedures there at that site.
Mr. Sanger: Now, is it the object of these projects that you are conducting with law enforcement, both internationally and throughout the country as you described, is it the object to develop techniques to try to avoid false claims?
Phillip Esplin: Well, it's -- the answer is yes. It's intended to try and develop methods that maximize the opportunity of, number one, obtaining accurate information. And number two, probably motivating the child to try to be accurate, because you have problems. You have some children that deny because the event did not occur. You have some children deny, which is a false denial, for whatever motives they may have for withholding the information. So you have kind of a two-pronged problem. The other difficulty is, in the majority of these kinds of cases, oftentimes it's the word of the child against the word of the defendant, and oftentimes there isn't the kind of corroborative evidence that would be nice to have. Consequently, the child becomes a central player in the process. So it's -- our efforts have been geared to trying to adopt strategies that will maximize accurate information from the children and then also understand dynamics that occur when a child, for whatever motive, may not be forthright with you.
Mr. Sanger: And in that regard - I asked about one side of it - you are looking to see if you can develop techniques that will maximize the ability to get the truth, is that right, get to the truth in your investigation?
Phillip Esplin: To get accurate, forthright information.
Mr. Sanger: So that could go either way. You've got children who are denying when something did happen. And you've got children saying things happened when they didn't happen; is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, it sounds like your involvement with the National Institute of Child Health has continued from 1988 to the present; is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. In addition to that, have you continued on in working with children in other respects?
Phillip Esplin: Yes, I have.
Mr. Sanger: And what regard is that?
Phillip Esplin: I evaluate children who have been -- in civil matters, who have been the victim of abuse, relative to treatment needs, short and long term. I consult with institutions that provide care to children so that their environment lessens the opportunity for a child to be exploited at the hands of an adult. And I also continue to look at cases that are unusual and do retrospective analysis where we know what the ground truth is. So I also will do some training. I do some instruction about children's competency, factors that can affect their competence.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, you mentioned -- just to clear up a couple things, you mentioned you're licensed as a psychologist in the State of Arizona. And that license you obtained in 1978; is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And you have been continuously licensed and in good-standing there?
Phillip Esplin: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, are you licensed in the State of California?
Phillip Esplin: No, I am not.
Mr. Sanger: So you would not be permitted to practice clinical psychology and see patients without going to open -- or going to -- I'm sorry, would not be able to open an office for doing that in California without getting a license?
Phillip Esplin: Well, most states have a guest provision, so I could come in the State of California to do an assessment, something of that nature, so many days a year, just like a California psychologist could come into Arizona, if there's provision. If I was going to move here and set up a practice, I would need to get a license through the California Board.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And you do not -- at this time, you haven't moved here. You don't intend to practice here?
Phillip Esplin: There's too many people.
Mr. Sanger: And evidently the dry air is better for your respiratory system. The -- now, is there anything that prevents you from offering -- either ethically, professionally or license-wise, from offering your forensic services and your opinions in courts in states within which you do not have a license?
Phillip Esplin: No.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, you have -- in addition to the educational background and history you gave us, so on, you have written a number of articles; is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And are a number of these articles -- let me ask you this: Do you know how many articles you've written on the issue of child psychology in general?
Phillip Esplin: I believe there's 25 articles on child witnesses that have been published in peer-reviewed journals.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Phillip Esplin: I think there's eight book chapters.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. So the 25 articles in peer-reviewed journals, can you tell us what that means? What is a peer-reviewed journal?
Phillip Esplin: That would -- it refers to a professional journal in which, when you submit the article, the article is blindly reviewed by other experts in the field, who make editorial comments, recommend either acceptance or rejection of the article, and provide you feedback if they feel that the article needs to be modified, rewritten, for -- you know, if it's not clear, whether there's confusing areas. So it's an attempt to increase the quality of scientific publications. So most scientific journals are what they call peer-reviewed journals.
Mr. Sanger: And that would be true for, say, physicists who are publishing articles in their peer-reviewed journals as well?
Phillip Esplin: That's correct. That would be in contrast, say, if I wrote an article for Newsweek magazine, it wouldn't be peer-reviewed.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So in these peer-reviewed journals, how recently is your most recent publication?
Phillip Esplin: I have a publication that was accepted December of '04 in the -- I believe it was The Journal of Developmental Sciences.
Mr. Sanger: And you have published articles -- without going into each one, but you've published articles pretty much each year over the last --
Phillip Esplin: I believe the first --
Mr. Sanger: -- ten years or so?
Phillip Esplin: Well, the first article was 1991. And I believe I've published pretty much annually since that time.
Mr. Sanger: Have you published in The Developmental Review?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And who is the -- what organization sponsors that review?
Phillip Esplin: APA. American Psychological Association, I believe.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And you've published in The Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology; is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Applied Developmental Science?
Phillip Esplin: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: A publication called Child Development?
Phillip Esplin: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: A publication called Child Abuse and Neglect?
Phillip Esplin: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: A publication called Legal and Criminological Psychology?
Phillip Esplin: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Another one called Family and Conciliation Courts Review?
Phillip Esplin: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Another one called Learning and Individual Differences?
Phillip Esplin: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: International Journal of Behavioral Development?
Phillip Esplin: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Psychology, Public Policy and the Law?
Phillip Esplin: Well, that's a law review journal published jointly by the University of Miami and the University of Arizona Law School. But I have published in that law review journal.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And then do you recall the books to which you contributed chapters?
Phillip Esplin: First chapter was in a book put out by the APA, the American Psychological Association, called The Suggestibility of Children's Recollections. Actually, the first one was a book put out by NATO called Credibility Assessment. Then there was a chapter in a book on -- a forensic handbook. I'd have to look. I don't --
Mr. Sanger: We don't have to go over all of them, but these are -- these are books that are respected in the field of psychology, for the most part?
Phillip Esplin: They're books that are sponsored by the Office of Scientific Affairs for the American Psychological Association.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Phillip Esplin: I believe all but one.
Mr. Sanger: And in order to be asked to write a chapter for that, you have to be accepted among your peers as to somebody who's qualified to write such a chapter?
Phillip Esplin: Whoever is editing the book has got to believe you have something to contribute to the book.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, have you also given seminars? Do you speak at seminars from time to time?
Phillip Esplin: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And do you speak on the issue of child witnesses and the general subject matter you've been talking about?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And when I said seminars, that would include also presenting scientific papers at symposiums?
Phillip Esplin: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now --
The Court: Do you want to take the break?
Mr. Sanger: I was just going to get to the next big subject. So that would be fine. Thank you.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Sanger: Thank you.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Dr. Esplin, there's one other little detail I want to clear up before we go on to the more substantive part of your testimony. Do you charge for your services?
Phillip Esplin: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And what do you charge for the services in a case like this?
Phillip Esplin: My standard rate is $400 per hour for the time I spend in my office. $3600 per day, plus expenses, if I have to leave Arizona.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And are you charging the defense in this case those amounts?
Phillip Esplin: Yes, I am.
Mr. Sanger: Now, I'd like to ask you, first of all, if you were asked to see any patients or do any clinical evaluations of anybody involved in this case?
Phillip Esplin: No, I was not.
Mr. Sanger: Were you sent a transcript of the testimony of Dr. Anthony Urquiza?
Phillip Esplin: Yes, I was.
Mr. Sanger: Other than that, were you sent any other information?
Phillip Esplin: No, I was not.
Mr. Sanger: Now, I'd like to ask you if you had an opportunity in the course of your studies and your practice over the years to hear the term “Child Sexual Abuse Accommodation Syndrome”?
Phillip Esplin: Yes, I have.
Mr. Sanger: And are you familiar with the person who developed that work on that syndrome?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And who was that?
Phillip Esplin: Roland Summit.
Mr. Sanger: Was he a doctor?
Phillip Esplin: Dr. Summit was an adult psychiatrist that worked in the Los Angeles area at I believe it's Harbor View, consulted with Los Angeles County relative to maltreatment issues.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And did he -- what was the primary thrust of his work with people who are allegedly mistreated?
Phillip Esplin: I believe that his -- that -- that the experiences that underlie the paper, the 1983 paper where he discussed the syndrome, were female patients who had been subjected to chronic incest or that they were individuals who had been sexually abused over an extended period of time by the father. And that -- and so it was not brief encounters. It was not encounters of short duration. It was encounters in which there was other facets to the relationship that was very important.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, you mentioned 1983, a paper written by Dr. Summit. Is that where he basically came up with the phrase “Child Abuse Accommodation Syndrome” or “Child Sexual Abuse Accommodation Syndrome”?
Phillip Esplin: Yes. That was the first paper -- that's what people attribute to when he wrote that initial position.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And in Dr. Urquiza's testimony, he actually referred to Dr. Summit; is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, to further understand what you just said, Dr. Summit's work was based primarily on adult females who were reporting incest by their fathers; is that right?
Phillip Esplin: It's my understanding as of the time that he wrote that initial paper.
Mr. Sanger: Now, was this -- did he develop this Child Sexual Abuse Accommodation Syndrome as a diagnostic tool, or what?
Phillip Esplin: No, he -- it was -- as I understand it, it was written to assist professionals and other people, other general population, in understanding the dynamics in which a child who has been subjected to a sexualized relationship goes about making the best of it.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Phillip Esplin: So to help therapists trying to understand that there's dynamics there that are complex.
Mr. Sanger: So a female child who is sexually molested by her father from a young age and was in later life dealing with this, is that the sort of situation that would be core to what Dr. Summit was dealing with?
Phillip Esplin: I think the essence of it was, number one, the chronicity, and number two, the complexity of the relationship that existed independent of the sexual aspect.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Phillip Esplin: If you have a child and they're in a family system, and the father is sexually exploiting the child, the child -- that's a complex circumstance for the child to react to. The child may love the father dearly, the child may recognize the importance of the father to the family's survival economically, and so the child is presented with a dilemma, and oftentimes the dilemma is they don't want this aspect of the relationship to continue. They don't want to have a sexual relationship with their father, but at the same time, they may love him dearly, and they may not want the family system to come apart, so they're put in a difficult spot. And oftentimes they -- in fact, in those circumstances, more often than not, I think they try to accommodate it.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Phillip Esplin: So make the best of it, and -- until something happens where it comes out or they get older and separate from the family.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And so when you say “accommodate”, that's one of the words in the title that he gave to this. Are there validation studies -- let me ask you first. What are validation studies in general in a way that would apply to this sort of thing?
Phillip Esplin: I think it's important to distinguish between a circumstance where we know abuse occurred so -- and how does the person that's in this situation make the best of it, and looking at how we make a determination about whether abuse has or has not occurred. So the accommodation syndrome is best suited for helping us to understand how a known victim accommodates that victimization. That's separate from the utility of the syndrome in trying to determine whether an event occurred or did not occur. Then it has less utility. It wasn't intended for that purpose, and it can lead to mistakes.
Mr. Sanger: So let me just stop you -- break this up a little bit. So when you're saying CSAAS, Child Sexual Abuse Accommodation Syndrome, may lead to mistakes when you're trying to use it to predict whether or not somebody's telling the truth, is that what you're saying?
Phillip Esplin: When you're trying to decide whether an event's occurred or not occurred, it has very limited value.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Phillip Esplin: Now, it has value. For example, one of the factors, the delay in reporting, that factor does have substantial scientific support, meaning that there are a lot of reasons why children that are in the circumstances don't tell anybody else for some substantial period of time. Now, but having said that, the timing of the outcry is not related to the validity of the allegation. So a person can come forward immediately. Maybe that's true; maybe it is not. A person can make the allegation after a period of delay. Maybe it's true; maybe it is not. So that it's a mistake if you used the timing of when the person first tells somebody else as suggesting that means it's more likely that it happened or did not happen.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. In other words, there are -- there are certain things that are predictors and there are other things that are not necessarily predictors; is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: That's correct. And the other problem is, the absence of any of those factors would not suggest that the child had not been victimized.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So let's take delay, first of all, one of the factors in Roland Summit's original work. What you're saying is, delay -- I'm sorry, let me withdraw that. What you're saying is actual abuse, sexual abuse, could end up resulting in a delay in reporting or not; is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: Correct.
Mr. Sanger: And whether there's a delay or there's not a delay, that doesn't, in and of itself, help you to predict whether or not the person is telling the truth about the sexual misconduct; is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And other than delay, have the other factors been subject to validation studies using control groups and scientific method?
Phillip Esplin: No.
Mr. Sanger: So, what are some of the other factors that are often quoted following Dr. Summit's original work?
Phillip Esplin: He talks -- they talk about secrecy, so that there will be a process in which the child is engaged. And in a lot of these cases, these are crimes of intent, not of impulse. So the person wants to lessen the probability of the child reporting, so there's some process in which they will convince the child, either directly or subtly, that it's something you have to keep to yourself. So that was the first phase, which was called secrecy. The second was called helplessness, and that related to a circumstance in which the child's not equipped, because of the power imbalance, to respond to the overtures in the way they might if it was an age mate, so that there's a sense of helplessness in that regard that they're more dependent. They're less capable of standing up for themselves. The third stage had to do with the process of accommodation, making the best of it, living with it. The fourth stage had to do with disclosure, or unconvincing disclosures, incomplete disclosures. And the fifth had to do with recantation, taking back. So those five factors are looked at as constituting the syndrome.
Mr. Sanger: Have there been validation studies to validate any of those five factors?
Phillip Esplin: The only one that has received validation is the delay in reporting. There are cases in which -- there are cases that occur in which the acts are acts of impulse. They're not acts of deliberation. A person gets intoxicated. He's a stepfather. The child is there, and he acts out those impulses. There are cases where the -- there is an engagement process, a seduction process that does involve secrecies. But the difficulty is the concept -- it's a heterogeneous group of kids that get maltreated, so the secrecy hasn't been borne out as in substantiated cases. That doesn't mean that there are occasions in which some process is undertaken by a perpetrator to lessen the likelihood the child's going to tell somebody, but it's just that it hasn't stood out and been validated.
Mr. Sanger: So in the research, this has not been validated; is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And therefore, the presence or the absence of any or all of these elements that you've just got through talking about wouldn't really have any diagnostic utility; is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: That's -- none of the five factors have been subjected to ground truth studies in which you have three groups. You have one group of children which have indisputable evidence that the abuse occurred. You have a second group of children in which there's no abuse. And you have a third group of children of false allegations.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Phillip Esplin: And then you see to what degree do those concepts assist you in identifying accurately which group the child should be in. And there has not been that type of validation study.
Mr. Sanger: So in your training of law enforcement and your multi-year process working with various law enforcement agencies both internationally and throughout the country, have you taken the position that their procedures should not rely on these particular factors for diagnostic purposes?
Phillip Esplin: Yes, with the caveat that they need to be aware that there are circumstances that could involve one or more of these. But the absence wouldn't mean it didn't, and they don't want to think that, for example, that a delay suggests that it's not accurate. So that you need to inform them so they don't have beliefs that are incorrect.
Mr. Sanger: All right. So it doesn't -- it doesn't act as a predictor. It's just information?
Phillip Esplin: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, with regard to contradictory reports, is there a difference when you're dealing with small children who might be, you know, three or four years old or five years old, and children in other age groups?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Can you tell us about children who would be in the 10- to 14-year age group, what you look for in reports?
Phillip Esplin: If you examine the studies that's relating to the age effects on memory, and you look at the different effects, and you look at, say, three- to six-year-olds, six to nine, ten and up, what the developmental literature suggests is that by age ten, ten years, kids ten and up, have roughly the equivalent qualities of memory as it relates to reporting events, what happened. They're less sophisticated when interpreting the meaning of what happened. As you move below ten, then you begin to see age effects in the amount of information reported, the different categories of details that they report. You see differences in what is meaningful to them versus older-aged children, important. So it's important to know that with regard to event memory, what happened, where they were, other things that were occurring preceding the event and after the event, what's called contextual embedding, children are quite capable, from ten up, to report that and to remember that quite well.
Mr. Sanger: So in the 10 to 14 area, let us take that as an age group, would it be correct to say that incomplete reports would be fairly common, but contradictions of key details would not be expected?
Phillip Esplin: That's what the literature would suggest. What that means is that it would not be uncommon, whether it is an adult or a child, if they've had a complex relationship in which sexual encounters have occurred on a frequent basis, to not give you all the information at one setting. The key is, as you look at what they say across time, is on what kind of details are they being consistent, and on what kind of details may there be omissions or additions upon each telling. The core elements, the central features of the event should remain steadfast.
Mr. Sanger: Now, again, you were talking about over time where you have the chronic abuse that may go over a period of years. Is that the sort of situation you're talking about?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: If you have a situation that occurred involving a number of days at the most, within recent memory, would you expect children in the area of 10 to 14 to not only have key details right, but also to be fairly consistent in their report?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Now, I'm going to ask you about --
Phillip Esplin: Now, I'm sorry, let me just add something.
Mr. Sanger: Sure.
Phillip Esplin: That assumes that they are motivated to disclose to you.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Phillip Esplin: It assumes you have a motivated child. It assumes that the events had distinctiveness or they were important to the person, and that they were alert at the time the events were occurring.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, Dr. Urquiza offered some anecdotal testimony about the rate of false claims.
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Do you recall that?
Phillip Esplin: Yes, I do.
Mr. Sanger: And do you think it's appropriate in your scientific background and your experience in working with this area to measure false claims rates using anecdotal experiences?
Phillip Esplin: I think that you could fit that in, into the scheme, but that would not be wise to rely on that.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And if somebody only had interaction, excuse me, with children who had been adjudicated to have been abused, and that was their experience for evaluating whether or not false claims occur, would that be an adequate experience base to make such an accurate determination?
Phillip Esplin: Well, I think you'd need to point out that your sample were children that had previously been adjudicated, so that the rate of false alarms in that population you would expect to be less than if you were looking at children on the front end, where there was an ongoing investigation.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Phillip Esplin: Because there's an investigation, there's been an evidentiary hearing, there's been a sorting out of the evidence, so that the likelihood that you have a false alarm in that population would be less. It wouldn't be nonexistent, but it would be expected to be substantially less than if you were looking at substantiation of the first reports. Those are much higher in unsubstantiated cases.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, there are studies -- there have been studies to determine a range of false claims, a range of percentage of false claims; is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: Well, let me just respond this way: To begin with, the base rate of true cases and false cases is not static. It's not the same -- you might have different rates in 1985 than you have in 1995. You might have different rates of false alarms in 2000 than you had in 1995. Because as you're increasing public awareness, as you were doing programs with children to encourage reporting, those affect your base rates. So you can't -- that's one problem. The second problem is the estimation of the base rates varies depending upon what criteria you've used to substantiate a case as being true or false, and so that makes it complex. I think the important thing is to be concerned not about the magnitude of the problem, but acknowledging that there are false cases of sex abuse. There are true cases of sex abuse, and there are false denials of sex abuse. And there are true denials. That's a fact. And then we could -- to try to argue about its frequency or infrequency is counterproductive scientifically.
Mr. Sanger: Well, without arguing about it, let me ask you, have there been studies that have shown a false report rate somewhere between the 15 to 40 percent range?
Phillip Esplin: Yes, I think if you looked at the survey studies, you'd see the estimates ranging from 2 percent to over 40 percent.
Mr. Sanger: On the one hand, the 2 percent, do you believe that those -- that the -- that that's an accurate overall number?
Phillip Esplin: That there are 2 percent of false allegation cases?
Mr. Sanger: Right.
Phillip Esplin: I do not agree with that. In 1992, there were 500,000 reports of sex abuse. There were -- in the United States. There were 128,000 that they determined were substantiated or indicated. Now, they could be making mistakes both ways, but if you use that data, you would have a false alarm rate or a nonsubstantiated rate of over 50 percent. So you have to be very careful, you know, when you talk about some absolute rate.
Mr. Sanger: Who conducted that study, by the way?
Phillip Esplin: The Center For Child Abuse/Neglect, National Center For Child Abuse and Neglect. It was based on 1992 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services data on reports.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Would it be correct to say, do you feel, the actual rate of false reports is somewhere between that on the high side and 2 percent on the low side?
Phillip Esplin: Well, I think that's way -- here's my problem: I think that you have to look at the context in which you're trying to evaluate the report. So you have a different rate of false alarms when you're looking at a divided family issue. So someone going through a divorce, that rate would be higher than the general population rate. The rate of false alarms would be lower when a child is left to their own devices than it would be if the child was subjected to external influences by someone in a position of authority. So you can't just take a rate out here as an absolute rate. You have to look at what are the contexts in which those classes of cases occur.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Let's talk about the person in position of authority. Would that include a mother?
Phillip Esplin: Could well include a mother.
Mr. Sanger: Now, there are different types of false claims; is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Can you describe the types of false claims?
Phillip Esplin: One type, which is more often seen with the three- to six-year-olds than the older-aged kids, is a circumstance where the child has a genuine but mistaken belief. So the child believes what it is they're telling you, they're just incorrect. That's one type of false belief.
Mr. Sanger: Ah -- go ahead.
Phillip Esplin: Another type of false belief is an older child who is reporting a belief that something happened in the fore-distant past. So a 12-year-old is telling you about an event that happened when they were three. The 12-year-old may believe that, but they could be incorrect. So that's the second type. You have a type where if the event under investigation is vague, so that the actions are not distinct and complex, that can be subject to confusion. So a witness could have a genuine belief, but because of the simplicity or vagueness of the event, that belief could be mistaken. The other category is where the child is being deceptive, either by omission or commission, meaning the child is saying this did not happen, when, in fact, it did, as being deceptive by omission, not telling you. Commission would be telling you something that they know is not correct.
Mr. Sanger: Now, let me ask you about that last category. Would that be an intentional false claim?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: All right. And do intentional false claims occur most often in a particular age group?
Phillip Esplin: Ten and up.
Mr. Sanger: Now, is this still relatively rare if the child is left to his or her own devices?
Phillip Esplin: Yes, in the absence of external influences, the base rate with which a child, on their own, would come up with a false allegation would be significantly lower than it would be in the absence -- or in the presence of external influences.
Mr. Sanger: So in a situation where a parent was pushing the child to make a false claim for gain, would that be a circumstance under which an intentional false claim might be found?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, is there anything that -- any other factors that would affect that, such as the truthfulness, the general truthfulness of the parent or the person who is in a position of authority?
Phillip Esplin: I don't believe scientifically we've figured out yet how to separate valid from invalid accounts based upon what a child or adolescent may tell you alone, without considering other types of evidence. We haven't been able to figure that out. Having said that, the -- and the other concern is, is that there's a point where children come to know the power of certain statements or information. So there is circumstances where they can understand that and use that for manipulation. You would want to look at the environment, the world of that child. You'd want to look at what are the ethical standards of the caretakers, what is their customs, what's their belief about the importance of forthrightness, or, in the alternative, lack of forthrightness. The primary influence on forthrightness or integrity comes from children watching how their parents conduct themselves. So if you want your child to have a good work ethic, you have one. If you want your child to be forthright, you try to be forthright. So it has a powerful influence. You want -- you'd want to look carefully at the environment of the child.
Mr. Sanger: So that environment would include whether or not the parents or parent that is in the child's environment is a truthful and forthright person; is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: Whether or not they have a character of being accurate and candid and forthright about important matters.
Mr. Sanger: And basically, if they don't have that character, if they aren't forthright about important matters on a regular basis, that could increase the chance that a child, age ten or older, could engage in intentional false claims?
Phillip Esplin: Well, it lessens the child's appreciation for forthrightness. It provides them an opportunity to model behavior where you may decide not to tell the truth because it suits your purposes. So it would increase the likelihood that a child may adopt that type of pattern in their relationships.
Mr. Sanger: Now, is it possible that false claims can occur in situations where there is a motive on the part of the influential adult?
Phillip Esplin: Yes. It's very important to look at the context of the original outcry, look at the key players, and look to see whether there exists any stake in the outcome or any potential gain by people who are significant in the child's world. You'd want to rule that out as a matter of investigative course.
Mr. Sanger: And would financial gain be a potential motive on the part of the influential adult?
Phillip Esplin: Could be.
Mr. Sanger: And a desire to seek retribution against somebody on the part of the influential adult?
Phillip Esplin: Could be.
Mr. Sanger: Would that also be a motive?
Phillip Esplin: Revenge.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you. I have no further questions at this time.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: Doctor, you mentioned a -- good afternoon. Excuse me.
Phillip Esplin: Hi.
Mr. Zonen: Doctor, you mentioned that there was -- am I on? Okay. You mentioned there was a study that you had reviewed that talked about 500,000 different accusations in a period of time and only so many substantiated. Do you have that study with you?
Phillip Esplin: I don't have the study. I have the citation.
Mr. Zonen: You didn't bring the study with you?
Phillip Esplin: No.
Mr. Zonen: Would you tell us the citation on that, please?
Phillip Esplin: Yeah, it was published by The National Center For Child Abuse and Neglect, 1994. It covered the reporting period of 1992. The data came from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services statistics on child maltreatment. So there was physical abuse, emotional abuse and sex abuse, reported incidents in that data.
Mr. Zonen: We're not talking about exclusively sexual abuse, then?
Phillip Esplin: No. I think there were 200 and -- 2.8 million cases reported. Of that 2.8 million, 500,000 were sexual maltreatment.
Mr. Zonen: And when you talk about validated or substantiated, what do you mean?
Phillip Esplin: They were simply whoever did an investigation, the investigative agency classified them as indicated or substantiated, or not indicated or not substantiated.
Mr. Zonen: If a child makes an allegation of sexual abuse and then recants it, would that be indicated, substantiated or otherwise?
Phillip Esplin: I don't know whether they would substantiate it and then remove it. I have a problem with the concepts “substantiate” and “indicated”, because I think there's errors on both using that concept. It's a concept that was developed out of Protective Services, which is reason to believe, but there's a lot of errors both ways when you look at what criteria they're using for, quote, “indicated”, or, quote, “substantiated”.
Mr. Zonen: It's hard to make sense of such a figure if we don't know what exactly it is they do to substantiate an accusation, right?
Phillip Esplin: That's correct.
Mr. Zonen: Would it be fair to say that the substantiation of those accusations would be different depending on whether they're sexual abuse, physical abuse or emotional abuse?
Phillip Esplin: Yes, I would put very little stake in that data, because it didn't define ground truth sufficiently. I would not put any data on saying, well, that means there's 128,000 true cases, and the balance false. I think that would be incorrect. So how I use it was to show the extremes of the estimates --
Mr. Zonen: Okay.
Phillip Esplin: -- and the limitations of the estimates.
Mr. Zonen: You view the 2 percent rate to be a little bit silly?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And you view the 50 percent rate to be a little bit silly?
Phillip Esplin: I would view it that way, yes.
Mr. Zonen: It's somewhere in there, but nobody knows quite where; is that right?
Phillip Esplin: Again, left to their own devices, I would say with children below 13 it would be a lot less.
Mr. Zonen: And in -- you mean false accusations?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Do you believe that they are -- there are fewer false accusations the younger the child goes?
Phillip Esplin: Six to ten, left to their own devices, I think the rate of false alarms, where that child would come up with it on their own, would be very low, compared to the 13-plus group or the 3 to 6 group. With the 3 to 6 group, I don't believe the majority are intentionally lying. I think they may have mistaken beliefs due to concerns of suspicions on the part of people that have influence on them.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Doctor, in terms of disclosures, you agree with Dr. Urquiza that you really can't draw any conclusion from a child reporting late; is that right?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: We're talking about reporting allegations of sexual abuse?
Phillip Esplin: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: And is it a true statement that most children never report?
Phillip Esplin: Well, if they never report it, we wouldn't know they were abused. So I think that the more accurate statement would be there are a number of people that wait an awfully long time to come forward. They may not come forward during their minority. If they never come forward, we wouldn't know whether they were abused or not.
Mr. Zonen: But are there figures that speak in terms of the numbers or percentages of occasions that victims of childhood sexual abuse report, either during their adolescence, during their teen years, during their young adult years or at any time during their adult years?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And are those figures such that you're able to say that there are substantially large numbers of people who never report, ever?
Phillip Esplin: I think it would allow you to say -- to estimate there would be a sizable number that do not share that with another person.
Mr. Zonen: I mean, we can't conclude that the number of people who ultimately do report stand for the entire population of those who have ever been abused; is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: No, that's right. And I agree. I think we agree. Given the fact that a sizable do not report as children but report later in life, would allow you to assume there's also a sizable number that haven't reported yet.
Mr. Zonen: And you would agree with Dr. Urquiza when he says that the time and even the manner in which one discloses is not necessarily reflective of whether -- of the truth of the allegation?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And in fact, children often report in piecemeal. They'll give a little information now, and a little information later, and more information after that. Would that be true, that's not unusual?
Phillip Esplin: I would agree with that if, by that, you're talking about that they don't tell you everything there is to tell you on the initial disclosure.
Mr. Zonen: Uh-huh.
Phillip Esplin: I would agree with that.
Mr. Zonen: And that kids don't necessarily know what's important to tell or not to tell?
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object. It's vague, because -- as to the age of the kids.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: Go ahead.
Phillip Esplin: I think what they would view as important would not be the same as what we may view as important.
Mr. Zonen: And that's the distinction that you made when you told us that children from about ten on have memories that are fairly comparable to adults?
Phillip Esplin: Event memories.
Mr. Zonen: Event memories, yes. But they don't necessarily know what's important to say?
Phillip Esplin: That's correct. They -- they're less capable of giving meaning to the event as it's occurring.
Mr. Zonen: All right.
Phillip Esplin: And they're less capable of determining how important it may be to tell versus not tell. And they become indecisive, so they don't take any action because they're -- you know, when I talked about their capacities, it was for event memory, not understanding and developing a strategy for their own best interest.
Mr. Zonen: And, Doctor, sometimes it's dependent upon age and gender of the child in terms of the likelihood that they would be disclosing at all; would that be correct? Those are factors to weigh in consideration?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. And if you're talking about a male adolescent child and a male offender, that could be very difficult for a child to reveal that kind of abuse; is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: Do you mean a male offender or a -- a male offender, male victim?
Mr. Zonen: Male offender, male victim, male adolescent victim.
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And by “adolescent”, we're talking about, you know, age 10 to 13, 14, around there.
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And one of the reasons that that's particularly difficult is because of the stigma of being labeled homosexual; would that be correct?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And in fact, children from 10 to 14 really do appreciate the significance of that label, don't they?
Phillip Esplin: I think they appreciate by third grade.
Mr. Zonen: All right. So --
Phillip Esplin: So you have a greater denial rate on validated cases with males than females.
Mr. Zonen: All right. An adolescent child walking up to another boy in the school ground is not particularly inclined to tell that other boy or group of boys that they were molested by a man; would that be true?
Phillip Esplin: I would agree with that.
Mr. Zonen: All right. Now, Doctor, in assessing credibility of victims, I mean, one of the things you do is just look at what they say, right, see if it makes sense?
Phillip Esplin: You would want to examine how the information was obtained and the different categories of details --
Mr. Zonen: Uh-huh.
Phillip Esplin: -- to the statement.
Mr. Zonen: Uh-huh. You'd want to see if those interviews are tape-recorded, would you not?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Because that would tend to resolve a lot of questions about what exactly was said or not said to the child?
Phillip Esplin: Help you do a systematic analysis of that interview.
Mr. Zonen: And, Doctor, when we're dealing with compliant victims particularly, you're looking to the extent of the relationship between the victim and the offender; is that right?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: All right. I mean, as opposed to a victim who simply comes upon an offender on the street and is forcibly abducted or forcibly molested. Those are different kinds of cases, are they not?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And in dealing with compliant victims, there's usually a relationship that exists or occurs or is developed between the offender and the victim?
Phillip Esplin: Yes. You're talking about outside of the sexual elements?
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: Yes. And that relationship establishes or the activities that lead to that relationship are what allow this act to take place, is that correct, the sexual act?
Phillip Esplin: If the person -- if the acts were intentional, purposeful, then there would be -- it would be quite usual for there to be aspects to the development of the relationship, the development of other aspects to it, that would set the stage for the sexualization of it and potentially lessen the probability of disclosure.
Mr. Zonen: Yes. Children around the age of, oh, 9 to 13, are really not inclined to engage in sexual activity with an adult unless they've been groomed for it; would that be correct?
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object. That's beyond the scope of the direct.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: I believe that what leads to these acts are exactly what was asked in direct. Certainly in the context of the activity and evaluating it.
Mr. Sanger: I would object to speaking responses.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Doctor, would you expect that, in dealing with a compliant victim or a victim who knows the person and has some level of relationship, that if a child tells you that he was befriended by this person, that would certainly be consistent with establishing that kind of relationship; is that right?
Phillip Esplin: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: If the child tells you that he or she has spent a great deal of time with that person, perhaps an inordinate amount of time than one might expect an adult to be spending with a nonrelated child, that would be consistent with the establishment of that type of relationship; is that right?
Phillip Esplin: Could be.
Mr. Zonen: If a child tells you that he or she was given gifts or privileges beyond what an adult would normally give a child, that would be consistent with the establishment of this type of relationship; is that right?
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object. This is beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: Is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: I would agree.
Mr. Zonen: All right. If the gifts are particularly personal in the sense of a gift of something that's literally taken off the person of the adult, a watch or jacket, and given to the child, that they may then put it on themselves, that's a particularly personal gift, that could be consistent with the development of that kind of relationship; is that right?
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object to the relevance; “could be consistent”.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: You can answer.
Phillip Esplin: The greater -- the greater the value of the gift to the recipient, to the child, the more persuasive the gift would have, the more persuasiveness.
Mr. Zonen: Taking a child to fun places and occupying that child's time with fun events would be consistent with the development of that type of relationship; is that true?
Phillip Esplin: It could.
Mr. Zonen: Giving a child money would be consistent with that, would it not?
Phillip Esplin: It could.
Mr. Zonen: Having a child share intimate moments with the adult such as, oh, staying in his room for long periods of time, would be consistent with it, would it not?
Phillip Esplin: It could be.
Mr. Zonen: Having a child share a bed with the adult would be consistent with the establishment and creation of that type of relationship, would it not?
Phillip Esplin: Could be.
Mr. Zonen: Getting a child's parents to trust the person, making efforts to really become close to the child's parent and even telling them that they have to trust the person would be consistent with that, would it not?
Phillip Esplin: Could be.
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object. This is speculative and -- at this point.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: Allowing a child to do grown-up things, such as drinking or swearing, would be consistent with the establishment of the kind of relationship that would sexualize a child or reduce inhibitions; would that be true?
Phillip Esplin: It would develop a specialized relationship. Yes, I would agree with that.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Hugging a child, kissing a child, I don't mean in a sexual way, but just allowing a child to become comfortable with physical contact, so touching a child and kissing a child more frequently than what an adult would do with a nonrelated child, that could be consistent with the establishment of that kind of relationship; is that right?
Phillip Esplin: It could.
Mr. Zonen: Letting a child stay up late or even up all night long?
Phillip Esplin: Again, if it was a special entitlement or a special privilege, that could relate to the process.
Mr. Zonen: Undressing or being naked in front of a child is a way of sexualizing a child; is that right?
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to object. That's beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Showing a child sexually graphic material is a way of sexualizing a child; is that right?
Mr. Sanger: Objection; beyond the scope of direct.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Well, Doctor, wouldn't you want to look at statements of children who talk about, or who complain of being victims of sexual abuse and who would fit into the category of the compliant victim, wouldn't you want to see if, in fact, there is that kind of a relationship that had been established that would accommodate the commission of those kinds of acts on a child?
Phillip Esplin: Yes, you'd want to look at that within the investigation, both with information you may have obtained from the child and other sources of -- to see whether or not there was materials that were sexually toned.
Mr. Zonen: Because it's exactly that type of behavior that allows a child to be party to those types of behaviors; is that right?
Phillip Esplin: Well, it would -- it could serve to desensitize the child to sexually toned materials that could lead to more sexually toned acts.
Mr. Zonen: And it's that type of behavior that would, to the greatest extent possible, guarantee that a child would not report those types of events; is that true?
Mr. Sanger: I object to that question. It's ambiguous and argumentative.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Zonen: Is that true?
Phillip Esplin: To the extent that the child comes to perceive they were a party to it and had a stake in it, it could -- it could lessen their motive to report.
Mr. Zonen: Children don't always understand what is happening to them when they are being subjected to sexual behavior by an adult, do they?
Phillip Esplin: No, but what I was trying to point -- the point I was trying to make is if they come to think they've got some responsibility, so they've gone along, and if they're aware that that would not be sanctioned by, say, the parents, then if they then participated, they may have a motive to not disclose out of fear of consequences for themselves.
Mr. Zonen: Is that unusual, that a child would have or experience some level of self blame; that they would think that they're responsible for what happens?
Phillip Esplin: No. That's not uncommon.
Mr. Zonen: That's not uncommon. Okay.
Phillip Esplin: When the -- when the participants are known to each other, it would be less common if it would be a stranger assault circumstance.
Mr. Zonen: Doctor, is it your expectation that a child who has been molested would immediately report that molestation to that child's parent, mother or father?
Phillip Esplin: No.
Mr. Zonen: In fact, isn't it the case that the parents are often the last ones to know; that they don't want their parents to know?
Mr. Sanger: Objection, Your Honor, it's argumentative.
The Court: Overruled. You may answer.
Phillip Esplin: Okay. With ten and up, I would say that the like -- with younger-aged children, the more likely to go to parents. They may not know they've been abused; that -- they may not appreciate the circumstances. I think the older-aged kids are more likely to go to a friend, not the parents.
Mr. Zonen: Are children concerned about not being believed?
Phillip Esplin: Yes, if they --
Mr. Sanger: Objection. That's ambiguous as phrased; overbroad.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Zonen: Are children concerned that they will not be believed if they disclose that they have been molested?
Phillip Esplin: The older-aged children, I would agree with that statement.
Mr. Zonen: By “older-aged”, are you referring to ten and older?
Phillip Esplin: Eight and up for that question.
Mr. Zonen: That's one of the issues that they deal with, “Will I be believed?” in terms of whether or not to come forward with this disclosure?
Phillip Esplin: Correct.
Mr. Zonen: And if the person who committed these acts, if that person is a respected person in the community, highly regarded person in the community, do children intuitively understand that and understand that that factors into the question of whether or not they'll be believed?
Phillip Esplin: The older children, yes. The younger -- the children below age, not as willing. Over ten, I think they can appreciate -- they can weigh that possibility clearer than the five-year-old can.
Mr. Zonen: Are children concerned, even at age eight, with the stigma of sexual abuse?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: And does that factor into their decision as to when to disclose?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Zonen: I have no further questions.
Message: REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. SANGER:
Mr. Sanger: Okay. As a scientist, you were asked a bunch of questions there that started out, “Could it be consistent with”. Do you understand what those questions meant? In other words, “consistent with”?
Phillip Esplin: Well, could you see it occurring in a particular case; not see it in another case.
Mr. Sanger: In other words, if somebody says, is it consistent with somebody going into a 7-Eleven and committing an armed robbery in broad daylight, is it consistent with that that the person got up in the morning, the answer would be, “Yes”, wouldn't it?
Phillip Esplin: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: “Consistent with” questions prove too much, don't they?
Mr. Zonen: I'll object as argumentative.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Sanger: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: What Mr. Zonen asked you about, taking people to fun places, does that mean if a person takes children to fun places that they are therefore molesters?
Phillip Esplin: No. And that's why you have to be quite careful when you develop investigative leads which would come from patterns of conduct that might have that motive, because -- but you don't want to base your determination about whether a crime's occurred based upon what might be consistent with. You could have a Boy Scout leader or a Little League coach that was a pedophile, a predatory pedophile, that was seeking opportunities to exploit those kids that were under their care. You could also have a wonderful human being that was trying to shape the personality development of those kids. And you have to be pretty careful, because you -- you know, there's things to be -- to take note of, but they don't constitute the kind of corroboration that allows you to have increased certainty about whether a sexually motivated act has occurred.
Mr. Sanger: There are people who are just nice, caring, loving people who love children; is that right?
Phillip Esplin: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: And they're not molesters, right?
Phillip Esplin: That's correct.
Mr. Sanger: All right. Now, you indicated in response to some of the questions of the District Attorney that children may make one kind of report or another kind of report. Again, the question is whether or not the actual event occurred; is that correct?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: Now, you were asked about some indicators. Let me ask you about some other indicators. You were asked about some specific things that I stayed away from, but I'm going to ask you now in response to the D.A.'s questions. If a child who is in that age of 10 to 14 were to report that his grandmother told him that he had to masturbate, because boys get to a certain level, and if they --
Mr. Zonen: I'm going to object as exceeding the scope of direct examination; assuming facts not in evidence.
The Court: What's the direction here?
Mr. Sanger: I'm going to ask if that statement has been made consistently, under oath and then in prior statements and then in court, the defendant is accused of making that statement, is that consistent with children directly lying?
The Court: All right. I'll sustain the objection.
Mr. Sanger: All right.
Mr. Sanger: When you look at the category of cases where there's a potential for intentional false statements - okay? - because I know you've told us about everything else, but let's just focus on intentional false statements by minors - are the factors that you want to look at, do they include whether or not a minor makes a directly contradictory statement about something that was said or done?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And when you look at intentionally false claims cases, is it important to look to see whether or not the parents of that minor engaged in a long course of deceptive and lying behavior?
Phillip Esplin: Yes.
Mr. Sanger: And would it be important to look at whether or not the parents of that minor child actively engaged the minor child in supporting them in their deceptive behavior to people?
Phillip Esplin: Yes, that would be particularly important.
Mr. Sanger: Okay. Thank you. No further questions.
Message: RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. ZONEN:
Mr. Zonen: But Mr. Sanger asked you about nice people who generally love -- genuinely love children as being people that would tend to do the types of things that I read to you earlier. You would not include among that category, nice people who genuinely love children, those who show children sexually explicit material, would you?
Phillip Esplin: I would not.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. No further questions.
Mr. Sanger: And I have no further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down.
Phillip Esplin: May I be excused, Your Honor?
The Court: You're not excused. You may step down. You are to remain on call until the completion of this trial --
Phillip Esplin: Okay.
The Court: -- which is not very much longer.
Phillip Esplin: Thank you, sir.
Mr. Sanger: But he may go --
The Court: He certainly may go back to Arizona. He remains on call.
Phillip Esplin: Thank you.
The Court: Call your next witness.
Mr. Mesereau: The defense will call Mr. Julio Avila.
The Court: When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing. Face the clerk here and raise your right hand.
Message: JULIO AVILA Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Julio Avila: Yes.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Julio Avila: My name's Julio Avila. Julio, J-u-l-i-o. Avila, A-v-i-l-a.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good afternoon, Mr. Avila.
Julio Avila: Good afternoon.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Avila, where are you employed?
Julio Avila: Neverland Ranch.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long have you been working there?
Julio Avila: About four years and six months, seven months.
Mr. Mesereau: What kind of work do you do there?
Julio Avila: Right now I'm working as security.
Mr. Mesereau: And what other jobs have you had at Neverland?
Julio Avila: I worked in the park.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you do?
Julio Avila: I was a park operator.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Is that the amusement park?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What were you doing as an amusement park operator?
Julio Avila: Maintenance, run the rides for guests, and run the small trains.
Mr. Mesereau: Any other jobs you've had at Neverland?
Julio Avila: No, those are the only two.
Mr. Mesereau: Those two?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And currently you're in security?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What do you do in the area of security?
Julio Avila: I work in the night shift. On the night shift we just do our perimeter checks, walk around the property to make sure everything is good.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you know the fellow seated at counsel table to my right?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who is he?
Julio Avila: That's Mr. Jackson, my boss.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall ever meeting a family by the name of Arvizo?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when do you think you first met them?
Julio Avila: I met them maybe a couple of months after I started working there. It was maybe like -- like five months after they had, like, the blood drive.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when do you think that was; do you know?
Julio Avila: I'm guessing maybe like -- like in December, January of 2000, I think. No, January 2001.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you mentioned a blood drive. What blood drive are you talking about?
Julio Avila: I think it was a blood drive that they had for Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you participate in that?
Julio Avila: No, I started working maybe, like, three weeks after that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So when you first met -- let me rephrase that. Did you meet Janet Arvizo at some point?
Julio Avila: Janet. I met her, but I hardly talked to her.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet Gavin Arvizo?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you recall when you first met him?
Julio Avila: It was like a regular guest. Comes to the park and wants to ride some rides.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you meet Star Arvizo?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Where did you meet him?
Julio Avila: In the park.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Davellin Arvizo?
Julio Avila: Same. In the park.
Mr. Mesereau: Met her in the park, too. And that's the amusement park, right?
Julio Avila: The amusement park, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: When you first met Gavin Arvizo, what was he doing?
Julio Avila: When I first met him, he -- I think he drove up on, like, one of the golf carts that the guests use, and just came up and he wanted to run some rides, so I run some rides.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did he just come up to you and ask you to let him on the amusement rides?
Julio Avila: Yeah. They'll come up and they just say, “I want to get on” -- “on the Ferris wheel”. “Okay”. So I'll go over there and I run it for them.
Mr. Mesereau: If there aren't a lot of children at Neverland, can whoever is there just come up to you and ask you if you'll turn a ride on and let him do it?
Julio Avila: If he could turn them on himself?
Mr. Mesereau: No, if you will.
Julio Avila: Oh, yes, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Typically if there aren't a lot of children on the rides, will a child come up to you and say, “Could you please start the Ferris wheel”, or “Could you please start the carousel”, that kind of thing?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And normally would you try and accommodate them?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what hours were you working when you were working in the amusement park?
Julio Avila: Usually there's two shifts. Usually I would work the 7:00 to 3:30, and sometimes I would switch off from like 1:30 to 10:00. The park usually closes at ten o'clock.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Julio Avila: The amusement park.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, did you operate some rides for Gavin?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you operate some of the rides for Star?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How about Davellin?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what rides did you observe them to be on?
Julio Avila: They were mostly on the big rides, which was The Zipper, The Spider, the Ferris wheel, Sea Dragon, the bumper cars, and the swings.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times do you think you accommodated Gavin when he wanted to get on an amusement park ride?
Julio Avila: Wow. A lot. Numbers, like 60, 70, 80. A lot of times.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many times do you think you accommodated Star Arvizo when he wanted to take a ride?
Julio Avila: About the same.
Mr. Mesereau: And how many times do you think you accommodated Davellin Arvizo when she wanted to get on one of the rides?
Julio Avila: About the same.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, did you have a chance to observe the behavior of Gavin on those rides?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object. Vague as to time.
Mr. Mesereau: I'll rephrase.
The Court: All right.
Mr. Mesereau: At any time did you have a chance to observe Gavin on those rides?
Julio Avila: Not really in the beginning to observe him, because they were just regular guests that would come, and then they would just leave somewhere else after they were done with the rides.
Mr. Mesereau: But did you ever see them do anything that bothered you?
Julio Avila: At first, no.
Mr. Mesereau: At any time?
Julio Avila: After a while, they would -- you know, they would -- their behavior would get like more - how can I say it? - confident to do other stuff that we didn't approve of.
Mr. Mesereau: What didn't you approve of that they did?
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection; relevancy.
The Court: Overruled.
Julio Avila: Like spit at myself and a co-worker. Stuff like that. Like when they would be on the rides, they would, you know, either spit at us when we were -- like on The Wave Swinger, when they would be all the way on the top, they would spit at us down, take off their shoes and throw it at us. Stuff like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see Gavin do that often?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see Star do that often?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Davellin do anything like that?
Julio Avila: No. She -- no.
Mr. Mesereau: You said they dropped things from the rides?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did they drop?
Julio Avila: It was mostly like when they would throw stuff. That would be their shoes. Their shoes, and they would spit and stuff like that.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see them spit on you?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see them drop shoes on you?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, what did you do -- excuse me, let me rephrase that. What was your response to Gavin and Star spitting on you?
Julio Avila: I would just tell them to stop or I wouldn't run any rides for them.
Mr. Mesereau: And did they seem to respond to your statements?
Julio Avila: Yes. When I would tell them to stop, they would.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was your response when they'd throw their shoes at you?
Julio Avila: Same thing. I would tell them to stop, and they stopped.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see them spit on anyone besides yourself?
Julio Avila: Yes. My co-worker.
Mr. Mesereau: Who was your coworker?
Julio Avila: His name is Javier Velasco.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ever see them throw shoes at anyone else?
Julio Avila: On anyone else, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Was there any time of day that you would tend to operate the rides for Gavin and Star?
Julio Avila: What was that again?
Mr. Mesereau: Was there any particular time of day when you tended to operate the rides for the Arvizo children?
Julio Avila: Just whenever they would get there. Sometimes they would get there early. You know, then they'd leave. A couple hours later they would come back. So just whenever they would want to ride the amusement park, we would run the rides.
Mr. Mesereau: You mentioned one other employee, Mr. Velasco, right?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did any other employees complain about the Arvizo children's behavior in the amusement park?
Julio Avila: I'm not -- maybe the other co-workers that work in the park, they seen stuff like that. But the ones that interacted more with them was myself and Javier Velasco.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Gavin and Star operate one of the rides themselves?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And describe what you're talking about, please.
Julio Avila: I was running The Zipper, which is at one side of the park, and -- and then when I looked to the other side of the park, I noticed that the swing was running and I was the only one there. So I had to stop this ride and run over to the ride that was running and figure out what was going on, and I guess Star was turning on the rides by himself without any supervision of an employee.
Mr. Mesereau: So what did you do in response?
Julio Avila: I just stopped it right away, and I told them, “You can't be doing that, because it's” -- you know, “someone could get in an accident”.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you actually see them begin to operate that ride?
Julio Avila: No, but when I was getting there, he was sitting down in the control panel.
Mr. Mesereau: Where is the control panel in relation to the actual ride?
Julio Avila: It's right in the middle of the ride. So the swings are going, and he's like in the middle. The control panel's right in front right here.
Mr. Mesereau: So was he sitting down in the control area?
Julio Avila: He was sitting down, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And operating the ride?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was anyone actually riding on the ride --
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: -- while he operated it?
Julio Avila: The sister was on the ride.
Mr. Mesereau: So Davellin's on the ride, and Star is operating it at the control panel?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see Gavin anywhere at that point in time?
Julio Avila: No, not at that moment.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you determine how long Star had been operating that ride on that occasion?
Julio Avila: About -- maybe like 30 seconds before I got there.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did you have to come from to stop that behavior?
Julio Avila: I was running The Zipper, which is, let's see, about maybe like 60, 70 yards away.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you -- excuse me. Let me rephrase that. Is there a part of Neverland called the control room?
Julio Avila: Control room, yes. That's a room that turns on all the lights -- well, most of the lights for the amusement park.
Mr. Mesereau: And where is the control room located?
Julio Avila: It is -- as soon as you come in towards the park, it's by, like, a tree, castle kind of thing, like treehouse, and it's right under that.
Mr. Mesereau: And what does the control room look like?
Julio Avila: There's some stereo equipment and then there's a lot of breaker boxes that turn on the lights.
Mr. Mesereau: Is the control room a big area?
Julio Avila: No. It's maybe like -- like from right here to like right there, something like that. It's kind of small.
Mr. Mesereau: And how do you get into the control room?
Julio Avila: There's a door that -- you open up a door and you just go right in.
Mr. Mesereau: Is the door ever locked?
Julio Avila: When we're there it's open all the time. But when we leave, we lock it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And how do you lock the door to the control room?
Julio Avila: It's just a simple knob, you know. Hit the switch and close it.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you have a key?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Does anyone else work in the amusement area with you?
Julio Avila: That has a key?
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah. Does everybody have a key to that?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that everybody who works in the amusement ride area?
Julio Avila: It's -- amusement ride area and security has one key.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when you're operating those rides, you say you leave the door open?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Are you generally far away from that control room door?
Julio Avila: No, it's usually pretty close.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So you're not far away from it when you're doing your work in the amusement park, right?
Julio Avila: Oh, no, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ever have a chance to find Star Arvizo in the control room?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Please explain what you mean.
Julio Avila: Well, I was using the telephone and -- well, then Star or Gavin would just know where to find us sometimes. When they couldn't find us -- when they couldn't find us around the park, they would check the control room, if we were there.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you have a chance to watch Star's behavior in the control room?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you see?
Julio Avila: He was writing on the control room, like on the -- by where the phone's at, the words, “You suck dick”.
Mr. Mesereau: You saw him write that?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what time of day was this?
Julio Avila: Mid-afternoon.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you walk into the control room and see him doing this?
Julio Avila: When I was using the phone, he was doing it. And when I turned around and saw, I asked him, like, “What are you doing?” You know, “You can't be writing that kind of stuff here”. And he kept on doing it. And when he was done, I just kind of like, with another pen, just kind of went over it, take out the words.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you say anything to him?
Julio Avila: Yeah, I told him not to be writing that kind of stuff here.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he say anything back to you?
Julio Avila: No, he just laughed.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he leave the control room after that?
Julio Avila: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was that the only time you ever saw him in the control room?
Julio Avila: He would go some other times, like, too, but he wouldn't write anything no more.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, did you ever see Star with any adult magazine?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Explain what you saw.
Julio Avila: Like one time in The Zipper, in the control panel, which is -- the ride's here. The control panel's right in front to run the ride. There was a magazine in there. And then Star came up and he saw it, he's like, “Oh, that's mine”.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he tell you where he got the magazine?
Julio Avila: Yeah, he said he brought it from home.
Mr. Mesereau: From his home?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you see him do with that magazine?
Julio Avila: He was just looking at it. And when he would, you know, walk away, he would just stash it like in the pant area, like tuck it in.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see him put it anywhere to hide it?
Julio Avila: Not put it, but I would find -- I found it in The Zipper and I think someone else from the park found one like where the swings are at.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did they say anything to him, to your knowledge?
Julio Avila: To my knowledge, no. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. Now, after he told you he brought it from his home --
Julio Avila: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: -- what did he do with the magazine?
Julio Avila: He was just looking at it. And then I'm like, “Well, you know what? Just put it away, because there's” -- you know, “There's other guests here, and just don't be bringing it to the park”.
Mr. Mesereau: And what part of the park did you find Star with the magazine he said he brought from his home?
Julio Avila: Where The Zipper's at, which is closer to the -- to like where the theater area is at.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Gavin with him at this point in time?
Julio Avila: No, not at that point.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Davellin with him at this point in time?
Julio Avila: I think she was.
Mr. Mesereau: And what were they doing when you caught Star with that magazine?
Julio Avila: I think she was in the -- on the ride, the one I was running, while Star was looking at it.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, which ride was she on, if you know?
Julio Avila: The Zipper.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So are you at the control panel?
Julio Avila: Yes, I'm in the control panel.
Mr. Mesereau: You're operating The Zipper for Davellin, right?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And where is Star standing at that point?
Julio Avila: The control panel's here, and then there's a fence area, just like small, right here, and he was right here on this side, to the right.
Mr. Mesereau: When you first saw his magazine, where did you see it?
Julio Avila: It was -- the control panel, there's two doors that you open up, like two little black doors you open up, and it was tucked in there.
Mr. Mesereau: And did he admit it was his?
Julio Avila: Yes, he did.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he then take it from that area?
Julio Avila: Yeah, he took it away, and he started looking at it, and then he -- when I told him to put it away, he just tucked it in his pants.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, was this sometime in the year 2003, do you think?
Julio Avila: Yes, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was it February or March of 2003; do you know?
Julio Avila: You know what? I'm not sure exactly what month.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you talked to Star about the adult magazine, was Davellin still on the ride?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Had they arrived together, to your knowledge, for the ride?
Julio Avila: I think she arrived first, and then she got on, and then -- I think -- because each one had different cars, I think. And when she got on, Star was right behind her.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you've described one incident where you caught Star trying to operate a ride --
Julio Avila: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: -- with Davellin on the ride, right?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see any of the Arvizo children do that again?
Julio Avila: Maybe before that, Gavin would try to start them, too.
Mr. Mesereau: And describe what you mean, please.
Julio Avila: For example, let's say him -- Gavin, Star and his sister would come up and they would be, “I want to” -- “Can we ride The Zipper?” “Sure”. As we were walking, maybe Gavin was already at the control panel trying to start it.
Mr. Mesereau: And you saw this happen?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you do when you saw that happen?
Julio Avila: I told them, like, not to be doing that, because, you know, only the employees can be running the rides.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see Gavin or Star driving quads on the property?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And please describe what a quad is.
Julio Avila: That's a -- a quad is like a four-wheel -- like a motorcycle where you can take to the mountains and drive them around there, around the property.
Mr. Mesereau: How fast do they go?
Julio Avila: How fast do they go? Maybe like 30 miles per hour, I guess. 40.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you observe them driving those quads?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did you notice about it?
Julio Avila: Destructive. Run over the grass. Just almost -- I mean, Gavin almost tried to -- like, he almost ran over, like, my co-worker, Javier Velasco. If he wasn't paying attention, he would have gotten hit, but he was aware of how they were driving, so --
Mr. Mesereau: And when you saw them driving like this, did you say anything?
Julio Avila: No. We did at first, but after a while they would keep on doing it, and, you know, we would just stay out of the way.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see the mother around while they were driving the quads in this fashion?
Julio Avila: I hardly saw the mother.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever see the mother at the amusement area?
Julio Avila: Rarely. Maybe like once. Let's say if they were there for a week, maybe she would come down once for, like, a couple minutes and that's it.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. We'll take our break.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you, Your Honor.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Good afternoon, Mr. Avila.
Julio Avila: Good afternoon.
Mr. Auchincloss: You've worked at Neverland for about five years. Is that about right?
Julio Avila: A little bit less than five years, yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: You're in security now?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: How long have you been a security guard?
Julio Avila: Like four months, five months.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you testified that the Arvizo boys became more and more rowdy as their stay increased at Neverland; is that right?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: So when they first came there, they were -- would you say that they were fairly well behaved?
Julio Avila: I would say fairly well. It was quick. They would come, get on the rides, and leave.
Mr. Auchincloss: But as they stayed there more and more, their behavior became more and more rowdy?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Would you say that's a common pattern among children at Neverland?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
Julio Avila: Yes, among children --
The Court: Just -- overruled.
Mr. Auchincloss: So the longer kids stay at Neverland, the more rowdy they tend to become; is that fair to say?
Julio Avila: Rowdy --
Mr. Auchincloss: Misbehaving, that type of thing.
Julio Avila: Misbehaving. A little bit. Not a lot.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. You were interviewed about these facts by the Santa Barbara Sheriff's Office; is that correct?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And during that interview, you had some problem determining whether the sheriff's department was talking about the Cascio kids or the Arvizo kids; isn't that true?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection.
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Overruled. The answer is, “Yes”. Next question.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And the reason for that is because the Cascio kids, who stay there quite often at Neverland, are quite rowdy themselves; is that fair to say?
Julio Avila: They would stay there a lot, but they weren't rowdy.
Mr. Auchincloss: Didn't you say they were rowdy? Didn't you tell the sheriff's department that they were?
Julio Avila: No, they weren't. Not the Cascios.
Mr. Auchincloss: None of the Cascio kids misbehaved?
Julio Avila: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: As far as this magazine that you said was found in Star's possession, I believe your testimony is he was standing beside you and leafing through a magazine with pictures of nude women?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And that was one magazine, correct?
Julio Avila: Yes, just one magazine.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Now, you signed a declaration in this case for the defense; isn't that correct?
Julio Avila: Yes, I did.
Mr. Auchincloss: And who prepared that declaration?
Julio Avila: I think it was Eric Mason. I think he first interviewed me.
Mr. Auchincloss: A private investigator?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Now, in that declaration, it says that Star had pornographic “magazines”. Was that a misprint?
Julio Avila: That I have seen, it was just one magazine.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Julio Avila: Someone else said they found one. Maybe that's why it's “magazines”.
Mr. Auchincloss: But you have no direct knowledge of this other magazine that was found?
Julio Avila: No. Other magazines, no.
Mr. Auchincloss: So Star -- if I'm picturing this correctly, Star is standing next to you, and he's just casually looking at this magazine?
Julio Avila: Yes, I'm running the ride here, and he's about maybe like right here, this far away, to my right.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Indicating maybe about three or four feet?
Julio Avila: Yeah.
Mr. Auchincloss: And just casually looking at the magazine?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Like it's no big deal to look at a nude magazine at Neverland?
Julio Avila: Yeah. Yeah. Well --
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; assumes facts not in evidence.
The Court: Argumentative.
Mr. Mesereau: Argumentative.
The Court: I'll strike it. Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. (Laughter.)
Mr. Auchincloss: So let's move on to the -- well, before we move off that subject, is it -- did you know that Mr. Jackson kept nude magazines at Neverland?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; foundation.
The Court: Overruled.
Julio Avila: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Didn't you tell the sheriff's department that you had knowledge that Mr. Jackson had nude magazines at Neverland?
Julio Avila: No. No. No.
Mr. Auchincloss: You're sure about that?
Julio Avila: Yeah.
Mr. Auchincloss: Didn't you tell Detective Vic Alvarez that this magazine might have come from Mr. Jackson?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection; misstates the evidence.
The Court: Overruled.
Julio Avila: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: As far as this ride that was started by Star, you said that you were in a different part of the park?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And you were operating The Zipper?
Julio Avila: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Didn't you also state in one of your interviews that the Arvizo children were the only three children at Neverland during that time?
Julio Avila: There was times that they were. And then there was times that, you know, after a day or two, there was more people there.
Mr. Auchincloss: But didn't you specifically state that during this incident that Star operated the swing ride, the Arvizo children were the only three children at Neverland? Didn't you specifically state that?
Julio Avila: I can't remember if I specifically said it, but I know that it was -- it was them three that were there during that time.
Mr. Auchincloss: So they were the only three at the amusement park at that time?
Julio Avila: At the amusement park, yeah.
Mr. Auchincloss: Why were you operating The Zipper if the Arvizo children were the only three people at Neverland and they were in a different part of the park?
Julio Avila: Well, they were in the park. They -- you know, they split up. Let's say one wants to ride on this ride, one wants to ride on this ride. Okay, “Well, let me go run this ride first”, and then if there's, you know, one person, two other -- the other two people are somewhere else. I don't know where they're at.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, didn't you just say Gavin wasn't anywhere to be seen during this time; he wasn't around?
Julio Avila: When was this at?
Mr. Auchincloss: When Star and Davellin were over on the swing ride and Star was operating it.
Julio Avila: No, Gavin was not -- when Star started the ride, Gavin was not there.
Mr. Auchincloss: Gavin was not at the amusement park at that time?
Julio Avila: I don't know if he was in the amusement park, but I didn't see him there where the swing was at.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So do you know who was on The Zipper at that time?
Julio Avila: The Zipper -- what time?
Mr. Auchincloss: During the time that Star was operating the swing ride.
Julio Avila: Okay. You know what? I'm not sure.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Now, do these rides have keys that prevent their operation by children?
Julio Avila: Some do.
Mr. Auchincloss: And there are very young children that stay at Neverland; is that correct?
Julio Avila: Yeah.
Mr. Auchincloss: And the swing ride does have a key, correct?
Julio Avila: The swing ride has a key, yeah, I think it does.
Mr. Auchincloss: Didn't you tell that to investigators, that it had a key?
Julio Avila: Yeah, I think it has a small key on the left corner.
Mr. Auchincloss: So don't you remove those keys when those rides are not being operated?
Julio Avila: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: You just leave the keys there, and if someone comes up and operates them, you'll try and stop them, I guess?
Julio Avila: Yeah.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you, Mr. Avila. I have no further questions.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down. Call your next witness.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. The defense will call Ms. Lessie Dean Wraggs.
The Court: When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing. Face the clerk here and raise your right hand.
Message: LESSIE DEAN WRAGGS Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Lessie Wraggs: Yes, I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Lessie Wraggs: My name is Lessie Wraggs. Lessie Dean Wraggs. It's L-e-s-s-i-e, D-e-a-n, W-r-a-g-g-s.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good afternoon, Miss Wraggs.
Lessie Wraggs: Hi.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Wraggs, you live in the Compton area?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that's in Los Angeles County, right?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you ever met someone named Janet Arvizo?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when do you think you met Janet Arvizo for the first time?
Lessie Wraggs: I think it was like '98. I'm not for sure.
Mr. Mesereau: And what are the circumstances under which you met her?
Lessie Wraggs: She came to Universal Dance to bring her kids.
Mr. Mesereau: And what is Universal Dance?
Lessie Wraggs: It's a dance -- tap school, ballet and jazz.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You may want to just put the microphone a little closer if you can. Thank you very much. You said it's a school for what?
Lessie Wraggs: Dance.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And were you working at that school?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes. Receptionist.
Mr. Mesereau: What was the name of it?
Lessie Wraggs: Universal Dance.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where was the Universal Dance school located?
Lessie Wraggs: 6009 West Olympic Boulevard in Los Angeles.
Mr. Mesereau: And you were the receptionist?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. When you first met Janet Arvizo, was she with her children?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And where did you meet this family?
Lessie Wraggs: She came up to me and asked me about classes for her kids, but she wanted free classes, and I told her that she would have to talk to the owner.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. She wanted free classes?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you send her to the owner?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who was the owner of the school at that time?
Lessie Wraggs: Paul and Arlene Kennedy.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, do you still work at the school?
Lessie Wraggs: Part time. I go up and help out.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And so for how many years have you -- I received a note to ask you to try and raise your voice a little bit.
Lessie Wraggs: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you very much. How many years now have you worked at that school?
Lessie Wraggs: About 13 or 14 years.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, when Janet asked you if her kids could go to the school for free, did you have the authority to tell her they could?
Lessie Wraggs: No.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was the owners' responsibility, right?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. You sent her to the owner?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what's the next thing you recall about Miss Arvizo?
Lessie Wraggs: She -- he talked to her. I don't know what he said to her. And Arlene talked to her. They decided to let them have some free classes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know why?
Lessie Wraggs: Do I know why?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Lessie Wraggs: She said she couldn't afford to pay for the classes, and that she had been passing by looking at the school and saw some of the kids dancing, and she was interested in her kids dancing.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, to your knowledge, did the Arvizo children attend the school?
Lessie Wraggs: Attend Universal?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How long do you recall their doing that?
Lessie Wraggs: They were there like about maybe three years.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So this would be starting in approximately when?
Lessie Wraggs: Eighty -- '98.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Okay. And would you see them often?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes, I used to see them. Well, I was seeing them every weekend.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you ever recall whether or not Janet asked anyone for money at the school?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes. Mr. Kennedy. Paul Kennedy.
Mr. Mesereau: How do you know that?
Lessie Wraggs: I had heard. Well, he said something to me about it.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object and move to strike based on multiple hearsay.
The Court: Sustained. Stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: Would you see the children with the mother from time to time?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And can you describe the mother's demeanor?
Lessie Wraggs: She -- she had control of the kids. She controlled the kids very well. The father, he didn't have control like she did.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you say “control”, what do you mean?
Lessie Wraggs: Okay. We had advanced classes and beginner classes and intermediate classes, and she wanted her kids in the advanced class and they wasn't ready, and she would tell her kids to go on and go into the classes anyway. And I would tell them that they couldn't go, but when I would turn away, she would try to send them in. After sending them in, Miss Kennedy would have to go and pull them out.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did that happen often?
Lessie Wraggs: Quite a few times.
Mr. Mesereau: Were the kids well behaved, to your knowledge?
Lessie Wraggs: No.
Mr. Mesereau: What do you mean by that?
Lessie Wraggs: They would be all over the dance school, into things that they didn't have no business being into, going to the shoe boxes. Like we had tap shoes that were, like, behind me or either in the closet. They would be in the closet. They would just go all over the desk and just do whatever.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you try and stop them from time to time?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes. They always talked smart. The two boys especially.
Mr. Mesereau: That's Gavin and Star?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what would they say to you?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm going to object as hearsay.
Lessie Wraggs: “We're doing what we want to do”.
The Court: Just a moment. The objection is overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: What did Gavin and Star say to you that you thought was smart?
Lessie Wraggs: “We're doing what we want to do”.
Mr. Mesereau: And what would you say to them?
Lessie Wraggs: I would tell them they have to get off the shoe boxes. Sometimes I have to move them out of their way to make them leave them alone.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did this kind of smart behavior happen right from the start?
Lessie Wraggs: I think about the second time they came, that's when I noticed how they were. And I mentioned to Paul and Arlene Kennedy that, “These kids are out of control, and I think they're only here because the mother want to use you. I think they have money to pay for their classes”. I told her that.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object. Improper opinion; no foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Auchincloss: Move to strike.
The Court: Stricken.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall how the Arvizo family would arrive at the dance school?
Lessie Wraggs: The only time that I really recall is when they came in with a new car.
Mr. Mesereau: And what kind of car was it?
Lessie Wraggs: It was like an SUV.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when they arrived with the SUV?
Lessie Wraggs: She told us about -- well, he told us first about that they had had a problem at J.C. Penney's; that the security guards beat --
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object as nonresponsive.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Let me just first focus on the car.
Lessie Wraggs: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: When they first started coming to the school, were they arriving in an SUV?
Lessie Wraggs: No.
Mr. Mesereau: One day you saw them arrive in an SUV, right?
Lessie Wraggs: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately when was that, do you think?
Lessie Wraggs: I'm not for sure when. It might have been like --
Bailiff Cortez: You need to speak up.
Lessie Wraggs: I'm not for sure what year it was.
Mr. Mesereau: And did it seem to be new?
Lessie Wraggs: It was new.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you ask Janet where they got this new SUV?
Lessie Wraggs: No, I didn't ask her.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you see them arrive in that brand-new SUV after that?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times do you think they arrived in that brand-new SUV?
Lessie Wraggs: At least three or four times.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, did you ever talk to Janet about an incident that happened at J.C. Penney's?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did she tell you about that incident?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: What did she tell you?
Lessie Wraggs: That the security there jumped on her for no reason at all, and her kids was running trying to help her, and as they was running trying to help her, the security guard beat her to the ground. That's about it. She --
Mr. Mesereau: Did she ever say anything about the race of those security guards?
Lessie Wraggs: Black.
Mr. Auchincloss: Objection. 352; relevance.
Mr. Mesereau: I think it's impeachment, Your Honor.
The Court: The objection's overruled. The answer was, “Black”. Next question.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she say anything more about the race of those security guards to you?
Lessie Wraggs: She just said that they were black, all of them were black.
Mr. Mesereau: And did she say she was concerned about something coming out of that incident?
Lessie Wraggs: She said the reason they hadn't been back to dance school is because her kids were scared to death of black people and that they hated blacks now.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall whether or not Janet ever said that her family was homeless?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did she say that?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when Janet said that her family was homeless?
Lessie Wraggs: It was after that incident.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you believe her?
Lessie Wraggs: No.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Good afternoon, Miss Wraggs.
Lessie Wraggs: Hi.
Mr. Auchincloss: Hi. Now, you began your testimony by telling us about how Janet stopped by the dance school and asked about free classes.
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know if that dance school ever gave scholarships to students before that time?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes, they gave scholarships to certain kids.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Did Janet ask for a scholarship?
Lessie Wraggs: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: When she came in, tell me about how she asked for the free classes. How did that conversation come about?
Lessie Wraggs: First she stood around and looked at the kids dance.
Mr. Auchincloss: I'm sorry?
Lessie Wraggs: She went around and went to each class and was watching the kids dance.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did she have any children with her?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes, she had her kids with her.
Mr. Auchincloss: All three?
Lessie Wraggs: All three.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay.
Lessie Wraggs: And then she came to the desk and asked me about free classes.
Mr. Auchincloss: If there were any free classes?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did she know whether or not -- were there any signs posted that this dance school was maybe a community-service-oriented enterprise, or was for pay? Does it have anything like -- you know, like pricing sheets on the wall, anything like that?
Lessie Wraggs: Yeah, we have -- we had schedules, and it showed how much the classes cost. Gave her a schedule.
Mr. Auchincloss: Where are those schedules?
Lessie Wraggs: They were at my desk.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And you referred her to Paul Kennedy?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And he's the owner of that school, right?
Lessie Wraggs: Paul and Arlene Kennedy. She talked to both of them.
Mr. Auchincloss: And the Kennedys agreed to allow Miss Arvizo's children to attend that dance school for free?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Were you present during that conversation that she had with the Kennedys?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And the Kennedys continued to allow the Arvizo children to have free classes at their school for three years?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes. I don't know how many years, but they were there.
Mr. Auchincloss: For three years?
Lessie Wraggs: They were free. They were free.
Mr. Auchincloss: Well, didn't you testify just a few moments ago that it was three years?
Lessie Wraggs: I told you also I'm not for sure about the years, but she was there taking free classes. It was probably about three years.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And the Kennedys could have terminated those classes at any time that they wanted?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: As far as this remark about the children not attending dance class because they were afraid of black people, you didn't believe that, did you?
Mr. Mesereau: Objection. That misstates the evidence.
Lessie Wraggs: Pardon?
The Court: Overruled. You may continue.
Mr. Auchincloss: My question was, you didn't believe that the children disliked black people, did you?
Lessie Wraggs: No, I didn't believe it.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. Janet was concerned that that was their perception; that they might have a problem with black people. She was worried about that, wasn't she?
Lessie Wraggs: No. I don't think so, because the kids --
Mr. Auchincloss: Did she express it?
Lessie Wraggs: No, because the kids had came before Janet brought them back. She didn't know that her husband had already brought them there, and they had been playing with the kids. But when she came, she said the reason they hadn't been back was because the kids were scared of blacks and that they hated blacks now.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. So that was Janet, what Janet thought, but Janet was wrong?
Lessie Wraggs: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Now, how old were the children when they started this dance school?
Lessie Wraggs: Let's see. I think one was about eight.
Mr. Auchincloss: Do you know which one that was?
Lessie Wraggs: I think -- well, the baby boy might have been seven or eight, and then Gavin was about nine. I think. And I'm not for sure how old the girl was. She might have been 10 or 11.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did Gavin have cancer during the period of time they attended the school?
Lessie Wraggs: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Was this before he had cancer or after he had cancer?
Lessie Wraggs: Before.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Thank you. No further questions.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. Thank you. You may step down. Next witness, please.
Mr. Mesereau: Defense will call Ms. Arlene Kennedy.
The Court: When you get to the witness stand, please remain standing.
Arlene Kennedy: Sure.
The Court: I'm going to ask you to face the clerk right here and raise your right hand.
Message: ARLENE KENNEDY Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Arlene Kennedy: I do.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Arlene Kennedy: My name is Arlene Kennedy. A-r-l-e-n-e, K-e-n-n-e-d-y.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good afternoon, Miss Kennedy.
Arlene Kennedy: Good afternoon.
Mr. Mesereau: Miss Kennedy, do you run a dance school?
Arlene Kennedy: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long have you done that?
Arlene Kennedy: I'm in my 25th year.
Mr. Mesereau: What is the name of the school?
Arlene Kennedy: Universal Dance Design.
Mr. Mesereau: And where is it located?
Arlene Kennedy: In Los Angeles.
Mr. Mesereau: And do you teach there as well?
Arlene Kennedy: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: Have you taught during the entire time that you've owned the school?
Arlene Kennedy: Yes, I have.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you know someone named Janet Arvizo?
Arlene Kennedy: Yes, I do.
Mr. Mesereau: And how do you know her?
Arlene Kennedy: Janet came to my school with her family, her husband and her three children, when her youngest was about -- Star was about five years old. And they came into my school and they asked my brother and I -- they said they couldn't afford to take lessons, so they asked if we could give them a scholarship that they could take free lessons, and my brother said yes, they could.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you know approximately when this was?
Arlene Kennedy: Star was about five years old. That's the only -- I can't tell you, you know, what year it was, because I don't know how old he is now, but he was about five -- he was five years old.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, were the father and the mother together when they asked for free classes?
Arlene Kennedy: Yes, they were.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ask whether or not the father was employed?
Arlene Kennedy: I didn't. My brother actually did talk to the family, and my brother actually made that decision.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you know whether or not the father worked for Von's?
Arlene Kennedy: I didn't know where he worked.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you know whether or not the mother worked?
Arlene Kennedy: The mother I don't think worked at that time.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did anyone tell you that they were homeless?
Arlene Kennedy: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did they tell you they had no money?
Arlene Kennedy: They said they didn't have any money. They said they didn't have any money. They couldn't afford dancing classes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you and your brother agreed to give them free classes, right?
Arlene Kennedy: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long did the free classes go for, if you know?
Arlene Kennedy: Well, they went in and out, because there was like a series of events. So, let's say that they would take the classes for this period of time, and then they were gone. And then when they came back, there was -- the father was telling me about the issue of J.C. Penney's. And so they were back for a short time, and then they were gone again, and then Gavin got cancer. And so when -- all during the time when he had cancer, I was up, you know, at the hospital visiting him and what have you, and then they were gone. So they were gone during that time and then after he got healed, they came back again. And then after, they were -- they were back again for a short period of time, and then they were gone again, and I guess it was during the time of her divorce. And then they came back again. And the last time that I saw them, they were in middle school, and they rode a bike. Star and the girl rode bikes to my school from East L.A., and they had to go back at night, and I said, “If this is your best way of traveling”, you know, “as young as you are”, I said, “that's very dangerous for you to be going from L.A. to East L.A. on a bike at night”. And I said, “If you don't have an adult”, you know, “coming with you”, I said, “I don't think you should come like that”. And that was the last that I saw them for dance classes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, your description of the children being on bikes, was that after Gavin had recovered from cancer?
Arlene Kennedy: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did the children tell you they had no car?
Arlene Kennedy: They didn't -- they didn't say that they didn't have a car, because they didn't discuss that. I know that while they were in the hospital, I know that Carol LaMere asked Michael to give them a car so that they can get back and forth to the hospital. I remember that.
Mr. Mesereau: And to your knowledge, did that happen?
Arlene Kennedy: Yes, it did.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, during the entire period of time that you've described, were the Arvizos going to your school for free?
Arlene Kennedy: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever charge them a dime to go to your school?
Arlene Kennedy: Never.
Mr. Mesereau: And this is for how long a period of time?
Arlene Kennedy: Well, I would say from Star being five years old until they were in middle school.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you ever learn whether or not during that period of time the father was employed?
Arlene Kennedy: The father was employed, yes, prior to Gavin's being sick. And I know once Gavin was sick, stricken with cancer, the father became unemployed because he stayed at the hospital night and day with his son. So he gave up his job to stay at the hospital with his son.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, did you discuss the alleged events at J.C. Penney with Janet?
Arlene Kennedy: When Janet came back. But the father and I discussed it first, because I said, “Well, where have the kids been?” And he said, “Oh, Miss Kennedy”, he said, you know, “It's been crazy”. And he started telling me about J.C. Penney's, but when Janet came back, it was a different story than what he had told me.
Mr. Mesereau: What did Janet tell you?
Arlene Kennedy: Janet told me that the event happened in the alley, and it was some black guys that, you know, jumped on her and what have you, and that she said that she hoped that her children wouldn't grow up to hate black people. But the father, on the other hand, had told me that it happened in the middle of the mall.
Mr. Auchincloss: Object as to hearsay, the statements of Mr. Arvizo.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: And were you told that the children were not attending the school because of the J.C. Penney incident?
Arlene Kennedy: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, at some point while you were giving free lessons to the Arvizo children, did you ever learn that the family had obtained $152,000 from J.C. Penney and another company?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object as vague as to time.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: At any time did Janet Arvizo ever tell you, “We don't have to get free lessons anymore. We just got $152,000 from the J.C. Penney lawsuit”?
Mr. Auchincloss: I'll object as to relevancy, without foundation.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever learn whether or not the Arvizos obtained money from J.C. Penney?
Arlene Kennedy: Yes, I did.
Mr. Mesereau: When was that?
Arlene Kennedy: Janet told me that the last time. I think it was after the -- when they came back to dancing school, she said that she had a lot -- they got a large settlement, and she said that the only thing that they really got was these bicycles. That's the way she put it.
Mr. Mesereau: All they got was the bicycles from J.C. Penney?
Arlene Kennedy: That's what she said. “We got a lot of money, but the only thing that we got that we can show for it was the bicycles”.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you continue to give the children free lessons after that?
Arlene Kennedy: I did. I did.
Mr. Mesereau: I have no further questions, Your Honor.
Message: CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. AUCHINCLOSS:
Mr. Auchincloss: Good afternoon, Miss Kennedy.
Arlene Kennedy: Good afternoon.
Mr. Auchincloss: So, the information that Janet gave you about the J.C. Penney settlement, she didn't hide from you that she got some money out of that settlement; is that true?
Arlene Kennedy: That's true.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And as far as the time that the Arvizos were attending your dance school on scholarship, if I understand it correctly, there was a period of time that they attended, and then they left, they came back, they left, they came back again?
Arlene Kennedy: That's true.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. And how long were these two periods where they left your dance school for a period of time?
Arlene Kennedy: Well --
Mr. Auchincloss: Let's go with the first one.
Arlene Kennedy: I would say the first one probably was -- was months, I would say.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right.
Arlene Kennedy: I want to say that.
Mr. Auchincloss: And was that around the time that -- when they left at that point, was that around the time that the J.C. Penney's incident occurred?
Arlene Kennedy: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Okay. When Janet was talking to you about the alley incident that you just described, are you certain that she was talking to you about the J.C. Penney's incident at the same time?
Arlene Kennedy: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: She said an alley?
Arlene Kennedy: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: But in either event, she indicated that she was attacked and assaulted and injured?
Arlene Kennedy: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. Did you ever attend church with Miss Arvizo?
Arlene Kennedy: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: On more than one occasion?
Arlene Kennedy: Well, it's the reverse. Actually, she attended with me.
Mr. Auchincloss: On more than one occasion?
Arlene Kennedy: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: And the decision to give this family a scholarship, was that just a thing that you and your brother did out of the kindness of your heart?
Arlene Kennedy: Yes.
Mr. Auchincloss: Did you ever feel like you shouldn't have done that?
Arlene Kennedy: No.
Mr. Auchincloss: All right. And you've done that for other people as well?
Arlene Kennedy: Of course.
Mr. Auchincloss: Thank you. No further questions.
Mr. Mesereau: No further questions, Your Honor.
The Court: Thank you. You may step down.
Arlene Kennedy: Okay.
The Court: Call your next witness.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes. Defense will call Mr. Chris Tucker.
The Court: When you get to the witness stand, would you remain standing. Face the clerk here and raise your right hand.
Message: CHRIS TUCKER Having been sworn, testified as follows:
Chris Tucker: Yes.
The Clerk: Please be seated. State and spell your name for the record.
Chris Tucker: My name is Chris Tucker. C-h-r-i-s, T-u-c-k-e-r.
The Clerk: Thank you.
Message: DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. MESEREAU:
Mr. Mesereau: Good afternoon, Mr. Tucker.
Chris Tucker: Good afternoon.
Mr. Mesereau: Mr. Tucker, do you know the fellow seated at counsel table to my right?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who is he?
Chris Tucker: Michael Jackson.
Mr. Mesereau: Is he a friend of yours?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: How long have you known Michael Jackson?
Chris Tucker: Probably four, three years. Four to three years.
Mr. Mesereau: And what are the circumstances during which you met Michael Jackson for the first time?
Chris Tucker: What are the circumstances?
Mr. Mesereau: Yeah. How did you meet him?
Chris Tucker: It's funny; I met him through Gavin Arvizo. And we talked on the phone one time, but of course I knew of him for years. And we talked on the phone, and again we met -- we talked, and we met in New York City, and we -- from then, we met a few other times and went from there.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, how did you meet Gavin Arvizo?
Chris Tucker: I met Gavin at The Laugh Factory. And I'm a stand-up comedian, so I went to The Laugh Factory and I met his father. His father approached me and told me that his kid -- he had a kid that loved me and he was dying of cancer. And I met him -- he told me he was doing a benefit at The Laugh Factory. I told him, “I don't know if I can make it, because I'm always in and out of town, but I'll try to make it”, because, you know, he said his kid was dying. So I met him at The Laugh Factory, and that's how I met him.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you remember the first time you met Gavin at The Laugh Factory?
Chris Tucker: The first time was at a benefit.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And what do you know about that benefit?
Chris Tucker: The benefit was a camp for kids that they put on, they said, every year for kids that wanted to act and do comedy, I guess.
Mr. Mesereau: And was the benefit, to your knowledge, for the purpose of raising money?
Chris Tucker: Oh, yes. Yes. It was for raising money, and there was -- it was, I guess, to like -- for the doctor bills and stuff. I don't know. Something like that. But it was definitely for raising money.
Mr. Mesereau: And who invited you to the benefit?
Chris Tucker: The father. Gavin Arvizo's father, his father.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So the father told you there was going to be a benefit to raise money for medical bills for Gavin?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you attended that benefit, right?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who else did you see there, if you remember?
Chris Tucker: I seen -- I met a lot of kids, and I met his brother Star. And it was kind of dark in the comedy club, but from what I can recall, that's where I met a few of the -- I think it was Star and his father and that was it.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall whether or not you contributed money on that occasion?
Chris Tucker: I don't -- not that night, but I did contribute some money, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And explain that, if you would.
Chris Tucker: I was asked a few days later to give some money, because they didn't raise any money. They didn't make any money. So I did. I wired some money to their foundation.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Who told you they hadn't raised any money at the benefit?
Chris Tucker: Gavin told me, and his father -- well, Gavin told me. Gavin told me.
Mr. Mesereau: So Gavin told you they didn't make a dime at that fund-raiser?
Chris Tucker: Yeah, they said they didn't make any money, and they needed some money. They couldn't -- you know, they needed some money. So --
Mr. Mesereau: And you then wired them some money?
Chris Tucker: Yeah, I wired them some money.
Mr. Mesereau: How much did you send them; do you know?
Chris Tucker: It was probably 1500 or more.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And you believe that was for medical expenses?
Chris Tucker: Yes, I was hoping it was for that.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, did you see the father from time to time?
Chris Tucker: Yeah, only with the kids.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And where would you see the father?
Chris Tucker: When they visited. I took them to Knott's Berry Farm one time. I took them to the mall a few times to buy them clothes and stuff. Those were the times I seen them. Only with the kids.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you say you took them to Knott's Berry Farm?
Chris Tucker: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And please explain what you did.
Chris Tucker: Well, I took them also with my son, went to some rides to make him, you know, have a good time. We rode rides, and that was -- that was about it.
Mr. Mesereau: And who -- who was on that trip, that you can remember, every person that was there?
Chris Tucker: It was my son, Star, Gavin's brother, Davellin, I think my son's mother, and -- yeah, that was -- yeah, my son's mother, and David, the father.
Mr. Mesereau: And who arranged that trip?
Chris Tucker: I did.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you arrange for transportation?
Chris Tucker: Yes, I think we went in my car and they followed us in a car.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was that an all day type of trip?
Chris Tucker: Excuse me?
Mr. Mesereau: Was that an all-day affair?
Chris Tucker: I think so, yes. I think it was nighttime. It went into the night, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, you said you bought clothes for the Arvizo children at a mall; is that correct?
Chris Tucker: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And explain what you did, if you would.
Chris Tucker: We went to, like, a sports store. They liked the Raiders, and bought them Raiders stuff, shirts and hats and shoes and stuff like that.
Mr. Mesereau: And who was with you when you bought these clothes for the Arvizo children?
Chris Tucker: The father.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Chris Tucker: And -- David.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever meet the mother?
Chris Tucker: I met her in -- the first time in -- in Las Vegas.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And her name was Janet?
Chris Tucker: Janet, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And please explain the circumstances under which you met Janet Arvizo in Las Vegas.
Chris Tucker: Yeah, it was real brief a few times, because I was filming, and it was -- I didn't really have a lot of time so it was real brief. So, it was just, “Hello”, “Hello”, because we was filming a movie the first time.
Mr. Mesereau: Was this on the set that you met Janet Arvizo?
Chris Tucker: On the set, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who was with her, if you remember?
Chris Tucker: I think David, her husband, and all the kids came up to Las Vegas on a road trip to visit me on the set. I invited them to the set.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, who arranged for that trip? Was it David or the mother?
Chris Tucker: I don't know. I think it was David, because at that time I never met her. It was always the kids and the father.
Mr. Mesereau: And approximately what year do you think this was?
Chris Tucker: I think it was 2001.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Chris Tucker: I think.
Mr. Mesereau: And they came to the lot, right?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: You met them there?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did they stay very long?
Chris Tucker: To my knowledge, I heard they stayed a while, and they was -- they was trying to get them to leave, but I didn't know because I was so busy. That they did stay a couple of -- a week or two. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: And you say they were trying to get them to leave. Who are you talking about?
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to object. Lack of foundation; calls for hearsay.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: To your knowledge, did the Arvizo family remain on the set while you were filming?
Chris Tucker: Only the kids, they came. The father -- I think they came with the father, and they was on the set for a while, and then they was doing stuff around town, but they was on the set a few times, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: During that trip to Las Vegas when you first met Janet, did you ever see the family again after the day they came to the set?
Chris Tucker: Yes. I seen -- after that day, I think -- I think it was the day they came to my house, and I met the mother again when we went to Miami, I think.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, let me -- maybe -- I may not have asked you a very good question. You're in Las Vegas, you're filming, and you meet the Arvizos on the set, correct?
Chris Tucker: Uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: That's the first time you meet the mother, right?
Chris Tucker: Yes, uh-huh.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you see them again in Las Vegas on that trip?
Chris Tucker: Yeah, I see them in and out several times, because I was filming long hours, so I'd -- I definitely seen the kids because they'd come to the set and they would be at the set, and I would -- and I think the mother came a few times, too, and the father. So I seen them, but I was so busy. So it was definitely several times I seen them again, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you help them stay on the set? I mean, did you give them a pass or anything of that sort?
Chris Tucker: Yes, I told them that -- I told the people that this was okay for them to be there. They were my guests.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you consider them friends of yours at the time?
Chris Tucker: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, after that Las Vegas trip, did you see the Arvizos again?
Chris Tucker: After that, I seen them -- I think it was at the house that time. And any other time I can't think of it, but it was at the house that time.
Mr. Mesereau: Is this at your house?
Chris Tucker: My house.
Mr. Mesereau: Was this in Los Angeles?
Chris Tucker: In Los Angeles, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, why were they at your house in Los Angeles?
Chris Tucker: Well, they called me, because they wanted to go out of town, and they wanted to -- and they wanted to find out where Michael was, because they always wanted to find out -- they wanted to find out where Michael was, and they wanted to go out of town.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now, you say “they wanted to go out of town”. Are you referring to Janet?
Chris Tucker: I'm saying the kids, because most of the time I talked to Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Chris Tucker: And --
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to move to strike as hearsay.
Mr. Mesereau: It's impeachment.
Mr. Sneddon: I don't think there's --
The Court: Sustained. You'll need to be more direct about who's speaking.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: I won't use the term “they” when I ask you questions about who's speaking. I'll just use individual names, okay? You said the Arvizo family was at your home after the Las Vegas trip, right?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who in the Arvizo family was at your home?
Chris Tucker: Gavin, Davellin, Star and Janet, the mother.
Mr. Mesereau: Was the father there on that occasion?
Chris Tucker: No.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you invite them to your home?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Who did you invite specifically to visit you at your house?
Chris Tucker: Star -- Gavin and his family, whoever was with him. At the time, I didn't know who was with him at the time. David, Davellin, Star and Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: Now, before Janet and her children visited you at your home in Los Angeles, did you speak to Janet on the phone?
Chris Tucker: I did speak to her before that --
Mr. Sneddon: Vague as to time.
The Court: Sustained.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. What year was the Las Vegas trip?
Chris Tucker: I guess it was 2001.
Mr. Mesereau: And how long after the Las Vegas trip did Janet and the children come to your home in Los Angeles?
Chris Tucker: It had to be -- I was filming, so it had to be a couple of months, a few months.
Mr. Mesereau: So do you think we're still in 2001?
Chris Tucker: I think so.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did Janet call you on the phone after the Las Vegas trip?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And did you speak to her on the phone?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did -- what did she say to you?
Chris Tucker: I talked to her one morning, and I remember because we was promoting a movie and we was talking about something, and she started crying on the phone, was crying, crying, crying, and, you know, she always said I was their brother, the kids' brother, and all that stuff. And we -- you know, I can remember this phone call, because she was crying. And I was -- you know, I was always saying, you know, “Everything's going to be all right”, because that's about as much as I could do. And that phone call was kind of confusing, so I don't remember what was said and all that stuff.
Mr. Mesereau: But you remember her crying?
Chris Tucker: Yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you invite her to your home during that phone conversation?
Chris Tucker: No. No, that was another conversation.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. After that first conversation, did she call you again?
Chris Tucker: I don't recall.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Do you recall whether or not you ever called Janet?
Chris Tucker: No, I never called her.
Mr. Mesereau: Did you ever call David on the phone, to your knowledge?
Chris Tucker: Never called him, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he ever call you on the phone?
Chris Tucker: Not that I can recall. It was mostly Gavin.
Mr. Mesereau: So Gavin would call you on the phone?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Did he call you often?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And I'm talking now about the time period after the Las Vegas trip, okay?
Chris Tucker: Okay.
Mr. Mesereau: How did Gavin get your phone number?
Chris Tucker: I gave him my number at The Laugh Factory the first time I met him. He asked for it, and I gave it to him.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And is there any particular reason why you gave Gavin Arvizo your phone number at The Laugh Factory?
Chris Tucker: Because, I mean, I felt like, you know, whatever I could do to help him out. You know, he didn't have any hair. He was going through, you know, all this what they say, you know, he was going through, whatever. But, you know, he was a kid, and whatever I could do, you know, I'd say, you know, “Here”.
Mr. Mesereau: Was he going through chemotherapy?
Chris Tucker: Yes. That's what they said, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they tell you he was undergoing cancer treatment?
Chris Tucker: That's what they said.
Mr. Mesereau: This was at the fund-raiser, right?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: All right. Now, after that fund-raiser, Mr. Tucker, did he start calling you on a regular basis?
Chris Tucker: Yes, he did. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And when you say “a regular basis”, like how often would Gavin Arvizo call you on the phone?
Chris Tucker: He called -- he called a lot. And then -- and then -- he called a lot. It wasn't my main number, but I knew it was -- I checked all the time, because I was always different places. So I checked it so I can tell how many times he called. But I always called him back when I got a chance, because I wanted to let him -- you know, just to call him and say hello.
Mr. Mesereau: And when Gavin would call you, did you ever believe his mother was on the line?
Chris Tucker: No. I didn't -- no, I only talked to him. I didn't think nobody was on the line, no.
Mr. Mesereau: Did Star ever call you?
Chris Tucker: Star, he called sometimes with Gavin, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. How about Davellin?
Chris Tucker: Davellin never called, no.
Mr. Mesereau: How many times did the Arvizos visit your home in Los Angeles?
Chris Tucker: Probably once -- probably three times. Probably three times, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Were all of these visits after the Las Vegas trip?
Chris Tucker: No. They was before. I think one of them was afterwards, but the rest of them was before.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Now -- now, the first time they visited your home, was that after the fund-raiser?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And that was after you gave Gavin your phone number at the fund-raiser, right?
Chris Tucker: Yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Was that the only fund-raiser you ever attended for Gavin?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Who do you recall seeing at that fund-raiser besides the Arvizo family?
Chris Tucker: A lot of young kids. A lot of comedians that I didn't know their names, but a lot of comedians, but a lot of kids. That was -- and I was like the only, like, I think, comedian, known comedian there, yeah.
Mr. Mesereau: And was it your understanding that everyone was there to raise money for Gavin?
Chris Tucker: That's what I was told, yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did you see Gavin in the lobby of The Laugh Factory, if you recall?
Chris Tucker: I met him upstairs after -- well, I think right after, right after it was over, I met him upstairs in The Laugh Factory.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall, when you entered The Laugh Factory, if Gavin was at a table?
Chris Tucker: Don't know. Don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall if any member of the Arvizo family was at a table in the lobby of The Laugh Factory collecting money?
Chris Tucker: I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So after it was over, you say you met Gavin upstairs?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was anybody with Gavin?
Chris Tucker: I think his father and his brother was there when I was introduced to them.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. And did you spend time talking to Gavin upstairs?
Chris Tucker: Yes. I was talking to him.
Mr. Mesereau: Is that when you gave him your number?
Chris Tucker: I gave him my number and a pair of shoes, Nike shoes that I got.
Mr. Mesereau: How did you end up buying Nike shoes from them?
Chris Tucker: I get them for free from NikeTown, so I called them and told them I was meeting a kid, and I wanted to get him something, a gift.
Mr. Mesereau: His father was there when you gave him the shoes?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And Star and Davellin were there also?
Chris Tucker: Star was there, yes. Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Was Davellin there, if you know?
Chris Tucker: I think she was. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. So was the first visit to your home shortly after that fund-raiser?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And what was the purpose of the first visit to your home, if you know?
Chris Tucker: Just visiting.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay.
Chris Tucker: Just visiting.
Mr. Mesereau: Did they spend a lot of time there?
Chris Tucker: I think so. Just -- they wanted to know where I lived and where I stayed, so I told them to come over.
Mr. Mesereau: And did they spend a lot of time on that visit?
Chris Tucker: I think they just stopped by probably an hour or so. They might have been somewhere. I don't know.
Mr. Mesereau: Do you recall what they did in your house?
Chris Tucker: I showed them around. And I got a small basketball court, so we probably shot basketball. Just -- you know, a pool table. That's about it.
Mr. Mesereau: And did they continue to call you after that first visit to your home?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: And who -- when I say “they” --
Mr. Sneddon: Your Honor, I'm going to -- that's why I was going to object.
Mr. Mesereau: I asked the wrong question.
Mr. Mesereau: Did any member of the Arvizo family call you after that first visit to your home?
Chris Tucker: Gavin. Gavin called.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Did he call you a lot between the first visit to your home and the second visit to your home?
Chris Tucker: Yes.
The Court: Counsel? I need to stop a couple minutes early because there's an issue, so would this be a good point?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. I'll excuse the jury, and we'll see you tomorrow morning at 8:30.
The Court: And Mr. Tucker, you may step down.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court outside the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: All right. I understood you had an issue, Mr. Sneddon.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, Your Honor. Thank you very much for accommodating me. What I was going to ask the Court, if the Court recalls, during the course of the testimony of the trial, Detective Bonner, he indicated in his testimony that we had obtained from the telephone company not only the subscriber information for Mr. Geragos, but also had obtained the telephone records for Mr. Geragos, but that those records had not been looked at and would remain sealed. In light of Mr. Geragos's testimony in the courtroom last week and the waiver of the attorney-client privilege, we are now requesting the Court for authorization for us to look into those telephone records with regard to the communications between Mr. Geragos, Mr. Miller and other members of the indicted -- the mentioned co-conspirators in the Indictment. So I'm asking the Court's permission for us to be able to do that now.
The Court: Wish to be heard?
Mr. Sanger: Well, just briefly. May I?
Mr. Sneddon: Sure.
Mr. Sanger: It's a little late in the game to do this, but aside from that issue, I also see there being an issue about phone records of a law firm involving other confidential matters. It's -- that's not necessarily our issue per se, but since Mr. Geragos isn't here, I think it's fair to say, as an officer of the court, that that would be an issue.
The Court: How would you propose to review the records? Or do you agree there's an attorney-client privilege involved?
Mr. Sneddon: No, there's nothing confidential in the communications. It's a telephone conversation. I don't think there would be a problem, because we're only looking for specific numbers that we already have as evidence in this case, and those would be the only numbers we would be looking at.
The Court: So you'll just look at the --
Mr. Sneddon: We're not fishing for new information. We're fishing -- we're not fishing at all, but we're only looking for those numbers that have already been put in evidence in this case, Your Honor.
Mr. Sanger: And I object the District Attorney is fishing.
Mr. Sneddon: Maybe that's where I wanted to be. It was a Freudian slip.
The Court: All right. I'll order them released with the proviso that you only look for the numbers that have been mentioned and you not look to see what other numbers there are.
Mr. Sneddon: Yes, Your Honor. One other minor matter. I just wanted to let you know, consistent with our conversation in chambers, that I anticipate the defense will be finished tomorrow morning sometime. We will have witnesses ready to go tomorrow. I cannot guarantee to the Court that we will have a whole day, though, because we have at least five or six people coming from Los Angeles, some of which had previous commitments, but I will tell the Court we should be done on Thursday. So I wanted to let you know that, and I think that's what I told you right from the get-go, and we've done what we can.
The Court: Okay.
Mr. Sanger: Your Honor, I just have -- I know you want to go. I have one question.
The Court: You know I want to go? Do I look anxious to you?
Mr. Sanger: The fact that you were jumping out of your chair was circumstantial evidence. Your Honor, with regard to the records, I'm just a little unclear. I understand you've resolved the privilege issue, but we should also have the records. I'm not interested in looking at anybody else's records, but if they're going to look at the records, we should have the records, so we can see if there's some information that's beneficial to the defense. And I don't know how the Court would propose to do that.
The Court: Well, I think I'll let them look at them, and then you can follow. The problem really arises because of the late waiver of the attorney-client privilege by Mr. Jackson with Mr. Geragos, so -- we had all of those protective records. So I think the -- I'll just let them look at them first, and when they're through they'll give them to you.
Mr. Sneddon: I don't mind making a copy for them, if the Court would authorize me to do that. I would be more than glad to do that this afternoon, Your Honor.
The Court: All right. And both sides are under the same order to only look for the numbers that are in evidence, and neither side is to reveal any other numbers to anybody.
Mr. Sanger: Yes, sir. Thank you.
Mr. Sneddon: That's fine. Thank you.
The Court: Is this -- you know, I'm going by the list you gave me, and by the list you gave me, this would not be your last witness. Is this your last witness?
Mr. Mesereau: This would be our last witness.
The Court: This is your last witness?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
The Court: So the other name that was there, you're not --
Mr. Sanger: There was another name that's --
The Court: They can't hear you in the back.
Mr. Mesereau: This is our last witness.
The Court: So this is the last witness.
Mr. Mesereau: Yes.
The Court: All right. See you tomorrow morning.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you.
The Court: Notice how slowly I'm leaving.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:30 p.m.
