Start of Day Message: Santa Maria, California Thursday, June 2, 2005 8:30 a.m.
Message: The following proceedings were held in open court in the presence and hearing of the jury:
The Court: Good morning, everyone.
Counsel At Counsel Table: (In unison) Good morning, Your Honor.
The Court: Mr. Zonen, you may proceed.
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the jury, good morning. Am I turned on? I'm not turned on. I'm now turned on. Everybody can hear. All right. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. This is the closing argument. We expect that it will go through a few hours today. We will be covering quite a few areas of testimony and evidence that has been presented. Ladies and gentlemen, this case is about the exploitation and sexual abuse of a 13-year-old cancer survivor at the hands of an international celebrity. The case is about a woman trying to protect her children from a collection of overpaid employees all determined to profit at the expense of her and her children. Over this closing argument, I will discuss with you the evidence that proves that Michael Jackson molested Gavin Arvizo and numerous other boys. I will discuss with you the methods that he uses to seduce boys into his confidence, into his bedroom, and into his bed. I will talk with you about the defense in this case. I will talk to you and tell you that the defense in this case is limited entirely to attacking the mother of this child, as well as the children. We will talk about how easy it is to say that Janet Arvizo concocted this entire story, and we will talk about how entirely impossible it would actually be to do so. There are two themes that will run through this closing argument. One is that Michael Jackson inserted himself into the life of the Arvizo family, not the other way around. It's Michael Jackson who invited the Arvizo children to his home in September of 2002 so that he might benefit from their inclusion in a documentary that was designed to jump-start his career. It was Michael Jackson who called those kids to his house on that day. It was Michael Jackson who told Gavin Arvizo that, “This is an audition for you”. It was Michael Jackson who put those children in that documentary. It was Michael Jackson who exposed themselves, all of them, to the ordeal that came about when that documentary turned out to be something other than what he expected. It was Michael Jackson who contacted the Arvizo family in early February. It was Michael Jackson who brought the Arvizo family to Florida. It was Michael Jackson who was oblivious of the consequences that would occur to the lives of these children and to the life of their mother by including them in his escapades. It was Michael Jackson who decided that these children were necessary for him to be able to further his career, to be able to stem the flow of negative press that was occurring as a consequence of that documentary. It was Michael Jackson who brought them to Florida. Now, the second thing is this: Janet Arvizo never asked for one penny from Michael Jackson. Janet Arvizo, in fact, had never had a conversation with Michael Jackson, other than the first time that she met him early in June of 2000 at the occasion that the whole family went to Neverland when Gavin Arvizo was sick with cancer. At that time, they all had dinner together and she, as part of the family, had conversation with Mr. Jackson that I'm quite certain neither one of them remember the context of. Beyond that visit in June of 2000, Janet Arvizo never went back, except for the occasion of Chris Tucker's child's birthday where she was there with a busload of other people. Michael Jackson was not there. She left at the end of the day. During that three-year period of time up to the point where Michael Jackson called her, because he needed her, not the other way around, Janet Arvizo had never asked for one penny from Michael Jackson, and to this day has never asked for one penny from Michael Jackson, has never asked anything of him, has never desired anything from him, and there is absolutely no evidence whatsoever that she does today. And those are the two concepts that you need to keep in mind during the balance of this closing argument. Now, I'd like to read something to you, and this is something that you heard in the course of this trial. I'm not going to tell you right now when you heard it or who spoke it, but you might recognize it, and at the conclusion, I will tell you where it came from. “I want to take it a step further and I want to let all of you know that I think an opening statement is a contract. You make promises in an opening statement, you better fulfill them. Because at the end of the trial, the jury's going to know whether you did or didn't. And I say to you right now, I'm going to make some promises in this case. I am going to fulfill them and I want you to judge me accordingly at the end”. Do you remember who spoke those words? That was Thomas Mesereau at the very beginning of his opening statement. He was making a contract with you, a contract that what he was representing in the course of his opening statement, he was going to prove, and he was inviting you to judge him on whether or not he did so. Let's begin that judgment. Janet Arvizo staged a shakedown of George Lopez was one of the first things that he said in the course of his opening statement and went ahead and described this event of Janet Arvizo being involved in leaving a wallet behind in the actor/comedian's home, George Lopez. That wallet was Gavin's wallet and later there was a claim by Janet Arvizo that there was $300 missing from that wallet; that Janet Arvizo wanted George Lopez to pay $300 to her. A shakedown, as described by Thomas Mesereau. What does the evidence reveal? We're the ones who brought George Lopez into this courtroom, and George Lopez said there most certainly was something going on. There was definitely a wallet left at his home. It was definitely Gavin's wallet. It was left in his home after Gavin and his father, David Arvizo, were at the house. There was a $50 bill in that wallet. He called David Arvizo and said, “What do you want me to do with it?” and the wallet was sent back to him. It was David Arvizo who later told Jamie Masada that there was $300 in the wallet. It was Jamie Masada who gave $300 to David Arvizo on the representation that it had been taken from that wallet at George Lopez's home. Janet Arvizo had nothing to do with this. Janet Arvizo didn't know about it. Janet Arvizo was not there. She had never been there. Janet Arvizo had never been in George Lopez's home. The only time Janet Arvizo had ever seen George Lopez was during the period of time that George Lopez was mentoring her children at the comedy camp. On those occasions Janet would travel by bus, multiple buses, from East Los Angeles to the Sunset area in Los Angeles, to bring her kids to comedy camp. During the course of those mentorships, they would meet, he would work with the children, and sometimes he would take them out to lunch. That was it. When Gavin became ill with cancer, Janet Arvizo called George Lopez very upset over the prospect of her child having cancer, and having cancer in such an advanced stage at the time that they discovered it. George Lopez and his wife very graciously visited Gavin at the hospital on a number of occasions. They had a few conversations with Janet. Janet at no time asked for money from anyone. Both George and Ann Lopez testified in this courtroom she never asked for anything. And in fact -- in fact, the only time that there was any kind of a transfer of anything between the two of them was when Janet Arvizo gave a key chain to George Lopez, an amulet, a mustard seed amulet for good luck. It was right off her key chain. It probably had not much value monetarily. It was sentimental and she wanted George Lopez to have that, and he appreciated that gift. She had nothing to do with any kind of a shakedown with George Lopez. Now, Mr. Mesereau either knew it or should have known it before he made that representation to you. He asked to be judged. Go ahead and do so. Janet Arvizo tried to get money from Fritz Coleman. We brought Fritz Coleman in here. Fritz Coleman never gave Janet Arvizo a penny. Fritz Coleman was never asked for a penny. Fritz Coleman was never the subject of a shakedown by Janet Arvizo or anybody else. What Fritz Coleman testified to was that he had met the Arvizo children when he did a benefit or participated in a benefit on behalf of Gavin while he was sick to raise funds and to raise blood for this very sick child. He testified that at one point over Christmas, probably Christmas '00, of 2000, that he wanted his children to understand that there were other children less fortunate than them. So he brought his children with Louise Palanker to the residence where Janet Arvizo lived on Soto Street in East Los Angeles. That residence was a single room. It was a studio apartment, and all five of them lived in that studio apartment. They were not brought there for purposes of soliciting charitable contributions. The idea was Fritz Coleman's idea. There was no conversation whatsoever with Janet Arvizo in advance of that idea. Fritz Coleman contacted Louise Palanker. He thought it would be a good idea. She agreed. They went out and bought a few hundred dollars of gifts for the children. They then got in the car. They called 20 minutes in advance. I wanted you to hear that, 20 minutes in advance, so that there was no possible way that Janet Arvizo would set up this apartment in some fashion for purposes of encouraging some kind of a charitable donation. They got to the apartment. It was neat. It was orderly. There were partitions in this one room to afford some measure of privacy for the family. The family were all, each and every one of them, were gracious in their acceptance of these gifts for Christmas. There was never a shakedown. There was never a request for money. There was never a request for anything else. Mr. Mesereau either knew, or should have known, that what he said was simply not true. Janet Arvizo approached Mike Tyson, Adam Sandler, and Jim Carey for money. Did you see any of those three come in here? I didn't. And I know what they all look like, and I think probably most of you know what most of the three of them look like, and I suspect you would have recognized them as well. There was some testimony that one of them, I believe Jim Carey, or Adam Sandler I think it was, gave a gift to Gavin Arvizo. There's absolutely no evidence that Janet Ventura -- that Janet Arvizo ever met any of the three of them. There's no evidence she ever asked any of the three of them for anything. There's no evidence she ever received anything from the three of them. Janet Arvizo tried to shake down Jay Leno. Jay Leno testified. It couldn't be further from the truth. There were a number of telephone calls that were placed by Gavin to Jay Leno. For a good reason. Gavin was in a bed, either in his cleanroom at his grandmother's house or in a hospital, for the better part of a year. There were periods of time that he was well enough to move around, but for the most part, while he was undergoing the chemotherapy, he was either in a hospital or he was in a cleanroom in his grandmother's house. He had a lot of time on his hands. He loved comedians. He was a graduate of the comedy camp at The Laugh Factory. He had met quite a few comedians. His favorite was Jay Leno. He called him. He probably called him many times. He was a ten-year-old child afflicted with cancer and he probably didn't have the social subtleties down. He probably didn't understand that too many calls would be boorish, it wouldn't be appropriate to do. Jay Leno didn't understand. He called Louise Palanker. He asked, “Who is this child? What's going on?” She explained that he was a cancer patient. He then called. He called and may or may not have reached the hospital at the time that Janet was there. He says he remembers talking to the child, he remembers talking to Star Arvizo, and he remembers talking to the person who he believes to be the mother. There was no shakedown at any time. Nobody asked for anything. No one asked for money. He never gave money. He says that the person he spoke to who he believes to be the mother, Janet Arvizo, she was gracious, she was kind, she was appropriate, she was thankful, she was sincere. There was absolutely nothing that she said in this conversation that indicated that she was looking for money or anything else, other than a person to extend a moment of kindness to her sick child for which she was eternally grateful. Now, let me point out that it is inconsistent with the testimony of both Gavin and the mother in the sense that neither remember that conversation. They remember certainly that Gavin had called Jay Leno but they don't remember actually talking with him. That's not necessarily inconsistent. If Gavin was in the hospital, then he was sick at that time. He was undergoing chemotherapy. He was probably receiving all manner of medications. He might not have known that the person that he was on the phone with was actually Jay Leno. That's certainly possible. There were probably plenty of people who were calling him and wishing him well, and it's entirely likely that he did not know who he was speaking to at what time. And he may not have remembered it, even if he did know it at that time. He certainly remembers calling him. He certainly remembers his admiration for Jay Leno. Was that Janet Arvizo who was on the phone with him? It may have been. It may have been somebody else who was there at the time. It was a very brief conversation. She may not have remembered it either. That's almost insignificant. The significant point is, Mr. Mesereau represented to you that it was a shakedown. And it clearly was nothing of the sort. Janet Arvizo held her son's arm out at The Laugh Factory looking for money. Remember when he said that? Janet Arvizo was never at The Laugh Factory during the time of those fundraisers. Those fund-raisers were during the month of October of 2000. During that period of time she was working. She was waitressing at the St. Bonaventure Hotel in downtown Los Angeles. It was David Arvizo who was organizing and pursuing and receiving the money from those fund-raisers. To the extent that any money came in, and some money did come in, it went to David Arvizo. How much of that he used for the family, how much of it he used for himself, how much he blew on drugs, was something that he will ultimately have to answer for. But the question of whether or not it was Janet Arvizo at The Laugh Factory pushing her son's arm out looking for donations is simply a statement that is not true. And there is no evidence to support it, and all the people who were at The Laugh Factory agree with that. Everyone who testified in this trial said they have no recollection of Janet Arvizo being there. They have a major recollection of David Arvizo being there, because he was at times obnoxious in his behavior. That statement was simply not true. Janet Arvizo was not there. Janet Arvizo bought a car from Hollywood Ford. That's come up quite a few times. And in fact, they even put a witness on the witness stand who told you, as the son rises in the morning, she purchased a car from Hollywood Ford. What we found out, of course, when we brought the witness from Hollywood Ford, I think that was Gina Villegas, when she came from Hollywood Ford, testified, “No, no Janet Arvizo or Ventura ever purchased a car from here. And in fact, we notified the defense of that accordingly”. Mr. Mesereau apparently knew that she never purchased that car. Now, incidentally, it's an irrelevant point. She has a right to buy a car. She got a civil judgment of $32,000. She could have purchased a car with it. She intended to do so. She took out a cashier's check. She changed her mind. It's just that simple. And then she cancelled the check. But why would they put a witness on, and why would Mr. Mesereau make the representation that she purchased a car, if in fact they knew all along that she didn't? Janet used the Soto Street apartment to get money from celebrities. Remember him saying that in the course of his opening statement? Janet Arvizo used the Soto Street apartment for sympathy ploys to get money from celebrities. Yes? Name one. Name one. Of all the witnesses who testified in this trial, one, name one who came in and said, “You know, I was brought to that apartment for purposes of looking at it, and I was so impressed with the miserable conditions that they live in, that I organized some kind of fund-raiser”. Nobody said that, because it never happened. There were two people who actually came to the Soto Street apartment, and that was Fritz Coleman and Louise Palanker. There was no evidence that any other celebrity was ever brought there for any reason whatsoever. And the two of them went there on their own initiative for reasons that I've already explained. There was no other person who was ever brought to the Soto Street apartment for any reason. Later, he says the Soto Street apartment was used as a grounds for some form of fraud against somebody or other, perhaps welfare fraud. No, that's not true either. That was their apartment and they lived in that apartment for many years. And after David Arvizo finally left the family after years of a tumultuous relationship, a violent relationship, Janet Arvizo continued to live in that apartment with her children. Finally at about November of '02, 2002, after she had met and became involved with a very decent man, Jay Jackson, Major Jackson from the Army, eventually started using his address at his apartment so that the kids could start attending John Burroughs Middle School, a much better school than the Hollenbeck District in East Los Angeles, where the kids were starting to be exposed to gang activity. That was with the understanding of the school, it was with the understanding of Jay Jackson, it was okay with them. They started living more and more at his apartment, but they maintained -- she maintained her own apartment. And that apartment was the same Soto Street studio apartment that they had had for years, and lived in. And at the time that Mr. Geragos's employees moved all of their possessions out of that apartment to some unknown location, unknown to her, it was a truckload of possessions that filled two vaults. There was no question but that she was still living in that apartment and that was her residence. Yes, they were spending days during the week at Jay Jackson's apartment while the kids attending school, but she still had that residence. She paid for it, she supported it, she paid utilities, and she paid rent, and they lived in it, and all of their possessions were in it. And that was in November. By March of 2003, they were finally in their own apartment -- in the apartment with Jay Jackson. Janet told law enforcement that they needed money. No, she didn't. No, she didn't. That was one of his statements in opening statement. Janet Arvizo told law enforcement, the detectives who interviewed her. All of the interviews with law enforcement that were done back at that time were videotaped. There was transcripts of it. It would have been very easy to present that evidence, if she actually told them that she was in need of money. She didn't. She never said that to law enforcement. They never presented it. He never proved it. Janet Arvizo was negotiating for more money with an attorney during the rebuttal taping. Remember him saying that, that she was on the phone with an attorney negotiating for more money? No, she wasn't. No, she wasn't. We're going to show you the documents that were generated during the taping of that rebuttal video. That was in the Calabasas residence of Hamid Moslehi. That was taken -- they arrived at that place on the 19th. We'll talk about it a little more. The taping was on the 20th. Who she was on the phone with was an attorney, talking about whether her children were going to be taken away from her the next morning. Taken away from her because there was an allegation that she was not a fit mother. Why was she not a fit mother? Because she allowed her children to spend time alone with Michael Jackson in his room, and in fact in his bed, something she didn't even know about at that time. That interview with the Department of Child & Family Services was a direct result of Michael Jackson's intrusion into their life, not the other way around. And she was on the telephone with a lawyer by the name of Vicki Podberesky, and that was the extent of that conversation, and you have not heard one word of testimony to the contrary. It was a conversation that was limited entirely to how she can hold on to her children and not have her children taken away from her because of what Michael Jackson did, not because of anything that she did. Other than perhaps the moment of neglect when she assumed that she could trust Michael Jackson, given his reputation. There was no conversation with any lawyer looking for money. And in fact, what we will show you is that the only discussions that took place between lawyers were the lawyers who were drafting the release agreement for her to sign. And we will show you the release agreement that she had to revise during the course of that evening because the original one was simply too complicated for her. And the one that they ultimately signed, she ultimately signed, was simply a simplified version of the more complicated; smaller words, smaller sentences, smaller paragraphs, simpler to understand, and larger font, the print was bigger. That's all that was. She never negotiated for one penny. She did receive that money. She did receive money that night. Not from Michael Jackson or any employee of Michael Jackson. She got $2,000 from Hamid Moslehi. Why did he give her $2,000? It's pretty obvious. Hamid Moslehi knew what was going on that night. He was well aware that he was going to get $250,000 for his efforts the very next day. He knew that all of the people who were promoting this video were going to become very wealthy off of it, and he understood what was going on; that the only people who were to get nothing from this production were, in fact, the Arvizo family members. Not one penny were they going to get. And he reached into his pocket and he gave her $2,000 because he recognized the injustice of what was going on. Did she ask for it? No. And he readily said that she did not ask for that. That was his own doing. That had nothing to do with Michael Jackson. It had nothing to do with any of Michael Jackson's employees. She was not negotiating for more money that night. And he either knew that or should have known that. Michael Jackson -- Michael Jackson took a lot of time away from his career to help Gavin. Do you recall him saying that in the course of his opening statement? There's no evidence that Michael Jackson took one minute away from his career to help Gavin. Michael Jackson was on the telephone with Gavin when he was sick, when he was in the hospital, and when he was at home. He had many, many, many long telephone conversations with Gavin, some in the middle of the night. Some that went on for hours. But guess what? He did that with all the boys who ended up in his room. He would have long conversations with all of them. That's how Michael Jackson functioned. That's what Michael Jackson does. That had nothing to do with benevolence, that had nothing to do with him taking time away from his career. There's not one moment of testimony in this case that shows that he sacrificed his career on behalf of either Gavin or any member of Gavin's family. Michael Jackson never once went to Los Angeles to visit. Never once went to the hospital during the time that he was ill at the hospital. Janet Arvizo was soliciting funds while being supported by a man earning $80,000 a year? How many times did you hear that from Mr. Mesereau? Janet Arvizo was soliciting funds while being supported by a man earning $80,000 a year? No, she wasn't, nor is there any testimony that she did that. Presumably, at some point in time, she ended up living with Michael -- with Jay Jackson, and in fact they ended up married together, and it's certainly presumable that he's supporting her at this stage, and perhaps even before they actually got married. But at the time that these solicitations were going on, which was very early, very early in the course of this testimony, and very early in a period of time, and we're going to look at a slide right now, that will give you a sense of the time periods that we're involved in, jumbling together all of these things together. Would you do the first one. The J.C. Penny's incident that ultimately resulted in a favorable judgment on behalf of Janet Arvizo and her children, that incident occurred on August 27th of 1998. It was in June of 2000 that Gavin was diagnosed with cancer and his first visit at Neverland was in August of 2000. The fund-raisers for Gavin were in October 2000. That's when all of those occurred. Every one of the witnesses who testified to whatever was going on was, for the most part, around October, was the fund-raiser at The Laugh Factory, and then into Christmas of 2000. The turkey that supposedly she wasn't as appreciative of as she should have been. Think about that for a moment. When you think about Michael Jackson and the people who work for him, who expect to make millions of dollars off the exploitation of this family, think about them begrudging her for receiving a turkey and for not demonstrating the proper level of appreciation. Think about them begrudging her because she accepts a body wax for $100, or a leg wax, or wherever they wax. And then he exploits this family to the extent of millions of dollars that they expect to profit off of this. Millions of dollars. Very careful to make sure that they don't get a penny of it. The fund-raisers occurred in October of 2000. David and Janet were separated in June of 2001. She was on her own at that point. Married at 16, and pregnant at 16, for the first time in her adult life, she's now on her own in 2001, and raising three children. No child support until the child support starts coming in through the District Attorney's Office, not until March 2003. Did she make a false representation on an application with the Department of Social Services for welfare? Yes, she did. Yes, she did. She got a check for $32,000. A check for $32,000. From the disposition of that settlement, that check was received and cashed on November 5th, '01. The settlement was resolved on the 18th of October, '01. Fifteen days later she went on welfare, and she did not disclose that she had $32,000 from that. This is a woman who was on her own, with three children. That was a mistake. It was fraud. She shouldn't have done it. And she stood before you, at age 37, by the time that she was here as a witness in this case, and that is the only thing in her lifetime that she has done that she clearly should not have done. That was a bad mistake on her part. And she may yet have to deal with the consequences before all this is over with. Go ahead to the next slide. The summer visit to Neverland was in the year of 2002, with Chris Tucker. That was during the summertime. The kids stayed on. Janet and Jay went back. That was the time of Chris Tucker's son's birthday. Chris Tucker remained at Neverland for some period of time. When we came to September of 2003 was the Bashir filming. And then finally in January 2003 was the time that the transcript was received from a reporter by the name of Kathryn Milofsky. She sent that transcript to Rudy Provencio and to Marc Schaffel. I'll talk about that a little bit in a moment. On the 24th of January, Michael Jackson and his crew arrive at the Turnberry Resort Hotel and they stay there until the 7th of February at that hotel. Much of the conversations that take place between Michael Jackson, between Dieter, between Ronald, between Marc Schaffel, some of the conversations overheard by Rudy Provencio, are with Michael Jackson at the Turnberry Resort. “Living with Michael Jackson” aired in England on the 3rd of February. And it was Jackson who called Gavin and asked him to come to Miami on the 5th of February. Go ahead to the next slide. Gavin met Michael Jackson, as I said, in August of 2000. At the time of that meeting, very early on, Gavin was taken into Michael Jackson's room with his younger brother Star. Gavin at the time was ten years old. His brother was nine years old. At the time that they went in there, Michael Jackson and Frank Cascio showed them sexually explicit material. Incidentally, the admonition is over for purposes of this argument. And I may, at my judgment, refer to any of this material as pornography, and I will be doing so. And I will show you what it is, and why it is. Showed them sexually explicit material on the computer. That material was brought up by Frank Cascio. It was talked about at that time. And both of these kids, when they testified on the witness stand, already a number of years later, talked about the fact that Frank and Michael Jackson showed them pornographic images on the computer. At that age, Gavin was sick at the time with cancer, but they were being entertained with sexually explicit material. Both of them remember two statements that Michael Jackson made at the time. The first was that parody of an ad that was popular back then, where he says, “Got milk?” in reference to a picture of a naked woman whose breasts were exposed. And the second statement was a statement that Michael Jackson said, as he mentioned to his young son, who was then four years old, who was asleep on the bed, and he says to him, “You're missing some good pussy”. Both of those statements were relayed to you as statements that came from Michael Jackson at that time. They were in the presence of Frank. Now, I have to ask you this at the very beginning of this opening argument, and I wish you to recall this and think about this every time we talk about evidence of this nature. Their contention is Janet Arvizo made all of this up and had the children say it. So I ask you now, and you use your good judgment and decide whether common sense dictates that these are events that simply happened. That's all, they happened. And these children are recalling these events with remarkable accuracy. Why would they make up something like this and put a witness in? Why would they ever do that? Why would Janet Arvizo sit down with her three children and say, “This is how we can make a fortune sometime in the future, years in the future, but we will start with you talking about looking at sexually explicit pictures in the presence of a witness, and the witness that we're going to select will be one favorable to Michael Jackson”? Frank Cascio, also known as Frank Tyson, was very close to Michael Jackson and had been very close to him since he was 13 years old. Why would they make this up and put a witness in there? Someone who they have every reason to believe would come forward and say that never happened. They're going to put a witness in, put a witness who would be favorable to them. Now, your common sense, which you don't leave at the doorway when you walk into this courtroom -- you were, in fact, selected for jury duty because of your ability to be able to exercise common sense and rely upon your experiences. Your common sense tells you that when these children testified to that event, that they were accurate in that testimony. That, in fact, when they said that Michael Jackson made both of those statements, that it simply has the ring of truth to it. And if he made no statements, then what is he telling you? What he's telling you, is that he was entirely happy to be sitting in a room with these two young boys and showing them sexually explicit material. Why? Because it excited him. That's why. That's why he has all of that material there. We'll talk about that a little bit later. The boys had a few visits thereafter. As we said, Janet Arvizo never went back again, not until the summer of 2002 for that one-day birthday party when Michael Jackson wasn't there. They go back for the Martin Bashir taping. They're part of that taping. Of course Martin Bashir interviews the children. Janet Arvizo has nothing to do with it, doesn't know it's happening. Signs no releases. January 2003, a script comes. The script is delivered by Kathryn Milofsky and it goes to Rudy Provencio, and to Marc Schaffel, and there is an absolute firestorm that begins, because many members of the press already have the script. And then finally the showing, which I believe is on the 3rd of February, and that showing is in England, and at this point it's madness. Rudy Provencio testified that, as he said, “If I was an octopus, I could not have answered all the phones that were ringing at that time”. The phones were ringing off the hook. They had all manner of concerns that they had. They were concerned about Michael Jackson as a parent. They were concerned about that scene, pushing the baby bottle into his baby's mouth. They were concerned about the incident that occurred in the zoo where there was too large of a crowd of people. They were concerned about his children being veiled. They were certainly concerned about the dangling incident, the baby over the rail. They were concerned about that ridiculous shopping spree in Las Vegas. But mostly they were concerned about his admission in the course of this interview that he shares not just his room with young boys, but his bed with young boys. And that he has done that over and over and over again. As he said specifically, “I've slept with all of them”. They were particularly concerned about that image of a young boy sitting next to him, holding his hand and leaning his head on Michael Jackson's shoulder. Because anybody in the press who was familiar with the 1993 investigation, who knew about that civil suit against him by Jordie Chandler, who had information about the other resolution of the case involving Jason Francia, all of them knew that this was a very sensitive and very risky issue for Michael Jackson. And as they watched that picture, their reaction was the very same reaction anybody would have of Michael Jackson talking about how wonderful and how loving it is to share your bed with a child. And gets asked over and over again by Martin Bashir, “But this isn't right. I mean, what is wrong with this picture? You're not related to these children. You're a 45-year-old man. What are you doing in bed with a child?” And his response over and over again is, “It's loving. It's wonderful. We have warm milk. We have cookies”. And they juxtapose this image of Gavin Arvizo, at that time 12 years old, sitting next to him with his head resting on his shoulder. And everybody who watches that has exactly the same reaction. The reaction is, “Get that child out of there. Somebody take that child and get that child away from him. And where are his parents?” That reaction is simply undeniable. And so there was an immediate outcry, and there were problems and calls from the press, and it created chaos in the Michael Jackson camp, and a need to do something about it. They immediately assemble a whole collection of people, most of whom have been working for Michael Jackson for some time and some were new who came into the picture at a later time. All of these people were activated to deal with this particular emergency that was coming along. Michael Jackson, of course, in the middle. The attorney, David LeGrand, who was handling the financial matters at the time. The Germans, who have been referred to in the course of this trial, Dieter Weizner and Ronald Konitzer. Marc Schaffel, who had been working for Michael Jackson for quite some time, held a very close position with Michael Jackson, was included as a credit in his production of “Invincible”, where I think the statement, “Marc, I love you very much. Thank you for all the work that you have helped to make this project possible”. The byline for Marc Schaffel was every bit as long as the byline for his own parents. Mark Geragos, who testified in this trial, and Brad Miller, who did not testify in this trial. And we'll be talking about that some more. Mr. Geragos was the attorney. Geragos was hired by Michael Jackson or more specifically by his employee, Mr. Konitzer, to take care of two particular issues. One issue was the question of whether or not his children would be taken from him, because of his remarks. The second issue is the question of whether or not there would be pending criminal liability. We're going to talk about Mark Geragos, as you can imagine, in greater detail a little bit later in this argument. Up here is Frank Cascio. This is the person who was in the room with Michael Jackson back in 2000 at the time. That he, Cascio, accessed graphic pornographic images on the computer for purposes of showing to these two kids, age ten and age nine. I want you to think about that in the course of this argument. Because there is no question in your mind that Frank Cascio knows exactly what's going on in Michael Jackson's bedroom. And as we start to show you the evidence, particularly confirmed by the telephone calls you'll see, that Frank Cascio was the closest person among all of these people to Michael Jackson. That Frank Cascio was, in fact, a close friend of Michael Jackson since he was a child. That Frank Cascio was the one who was the hub of all of the communications on all of these crucial dates. That Frank Cascio was very, very devoted to Michael Jackson. And the suggestion that Michael Jackson was ignorant and kept in the dark about these events simply doesn't hold water given the extent of their relationship, and the communication that Frank Cascio had in the course of the days that took place following the publication of “Living with Michael Jackson”. And the last person up here to the right, that's Vinnie Amen, close friend of Frank Cascio, and who was brought in particularly from the time around the 20th to the time of the filming of the film. Now, as I move on -- before I move on, let me talk a little bit to you about Rudy Provencio. Because Rudy is going to -- Rudy testified, Mr. Provencio testified to a number of conversations that took place between a variety of different people. And before I get into the content of the conversations, let me mention something about Mr. Provencio. He's an unusual person. He was a lively personality. Funny. Was very, very candid in the answers that he gave. I expect at some time during Mr. Mesereau's closing argument that he will tell you that Mr. Provencio cannot be trusted. He might even say he lies. He might even say he committed perjury. Before we get to that discussion, let me point out something about Mr. Provencio. Mr. Provencio accepted a contract for $225,000 with Neverland Valley Entertainment. Neverland Valley Entertainment was a corporate entity that effectively was Michael Jackson, the money that went in to create it was Michael Jackson's money. The agreement in the creation of that entity was between Michael Jackson and Marc Schaffel. He was hired on to be the executive officer, to be able to manage it and run it. He had 20 years of experience in the music industry, something Marc Schaffel didn't have. Marc Schaffel's experiences were varied, but there was a great deal of it, frankly, in the porn industry. He was very good at promoting things, but he didn't understand the music industry. Rudy Provencio was brought in for that purpose. Rudy Provencio signed a contract for $225,000. It was expected that the project would be over in one year. It took longer than that and ultimately didn't resolve for a variety of different reasons. But they worked hard at this project. The project was creating one song, “What More Can I Give?” It was supposed to be the sequel to “We are the World”, “We are the Children”, We are the Someone”. It was the first song that made a tremendous amount of money. This was expected to make money every bit as much, perhaps as much as or more than $100 million. During the course of the dealings between Mr. Provencio and Michael Jackson, he was personally given a one point interest in the entire profits of “What More Can I Give?” That one point means 1 percent. It's 1 percent of the gross profits. That means that Rudy Provencio stood to make, in addition to his $225,000 salary, up to or even more than one million dollars, if this song was successful on the level of the last one. And if this song raises the kind of money that he expected, it certainly would have brought in hundreds of thousands of dollars in addition to his salary. Rudy Provencio, at some point during the course of his work for Neverland Valley Entertainment and for Michael Jackson, came to the realization and conclusion that the work that he was doing did not justify the receipt of that percentage, and he gave it back to Michael Jackson. He did it officially, used David LeGrand to put it in writing, and he returned it. He believed that, one, he returned it, and, two, he did not want to be involved with them particularly for the rest of his life, as that percentage might necessarily involve in terms of the giving of royalties, and frankly he didn't believe that he earned it. It was an entirely admirable thing to do. It was an entirely unselfish thing to do. It was a sign of great integrity. He didn't give it to Marc Schaffel. He didn't sell it to somebody. Schaffel, it turns out, sold his interest to somebody who died before they were be able to collect anything. Schaffel got the money from it, they died, that was the end of it. Even Rudy Provencio felt that was inappropriate; that Schaffel should have given that money back to that investor as well. Did not sell that percentage. He gave it, he gave it to Michael Jackson. Simply felt that he didn't deserve it. Didn't want to have it. I want you to think about that when Mr. Mesereau stands up here and tells you that Rudy Provencio is lying. Think about that. What motive would he have? Rudy Provencio tells us that the conversations that took place as early as the first of February were conversations between one or both of the Germans, Michael Jackson, Marc Schaffel, and perhaps others. And it was early on in February, before the first screening of “Living with Michael Jackson” in England. The purpose of those conversations -- the purpose of those conversations was to determine how to stem the problems that were created by the presentation of this documentary. It was decided at that time that there would be two goals in what they were about to do. One was to reverse the negative publicity, if that was at all possible, and the second was to raise money. The second proposition was argued against by Ann Gabriel Kite, who was hired for public relations in New Orleans, who said, “You don't do both, because one compromises the effect of the other one. Either make it profitable or do it for reversing the negative publicity that he received, but don't do both”. She was soon thereafter fired. It was very clear that their goal was to look for a money-making venture, and they found one. But one of the things that was decided early on in this event was that they needed to have a second or third person involved. Early on, it was decided, and we know this from Rudy Provencio because of the calls that he monitored early on. And we're talking about the 1st or the 2nd of February, where it was decided at that time that they needed the assistance of Debbie Rowe, Michael Jackson's ex-wife and the mother of his two children, and they needed the assistance of Gavin Arvizo. Both of these people were going to come in and effectively say, “He's normal. He's normal. All of this publicity is” -- “bad publicity is inappropriately generated. He's a normal human being”. Debbie Rowe was going to say, “He's a good father. He's attentive to the children”. All of that business about, “Oh, the children don't have a mother, they shouldn't have a mother, they can't have a mother”, all that stuff that came in that dealt with him raising children, “Where is the mother? Whether they have access”. Debbie Rowe was going to stem the publicity dealing with that issue. And then they had to deal with the issue of whether or not Michael Jackson had an appropriate or inappropriate relationship with Gavin Arvizo, and for that they needed Gavin. As to the first, Debbie Rowe, they dangled the prospect -- and it was specifically Michael Jackson who did this, not one of his employees. They dangled the prospect of her being able to once again see her children. Quite unlike what he was representing, she did in fact want to see her children, and had not seen them for two and a half years. And that representation was made specifically by Michael Jackson, that “If you do this, you'll come” -- “you'll come to Neverland, you'll visit with the children”. And she was quite excited and quite willing to do so. In like fashion, Michael Jackson dangled Janet Arvizo's children in front of her as well, but in a different manner. Debbie Rowe wasn't going to be convinced that her children were in danger. That wasn't something that Debbie Rowe was going to be influenced by. For her incentive was to be able to see the children. For Janet Arvizo it was a different matter entirely. There were a series of telephone calls that began. The first telephone call that we have from Michael Jackson at the Turnberry Hotel was on the 4th of February, 1635 is 4:35 in the afternoon. A second one at 1754, that's 5:54, almost six o'clock in the afternoon. The duration of both of those phone calls was one minute in length, but this was on the 4th of February, in the late afternoon hours of the 4th of February. And I bring this to your attention because I want you to understand that the defense contention is they're going to be saying that it was actually Gavin who initiated this trip to Florida, not the other way around. And it's simply not true. The first conversations and the first phone calls come from Michael Jackson. And that was at 4:35. That was to the Ventura residence in El Monte. It was for purposes of being able to locate Gavin and be able to make that arrangement. Obviously that happened, on the same day, at 6:11. And then a second phone call at 6:14, both for a duration of four minutes each, were from Jay Jackson's residence in the west -- excuse me, in the mid-Wilshire area of Los Angeles to Chris Tucker at that point. Now, obviously there was communication between Chris Tucker and Michael Jackson and Evvy Tavasci. And we're going to go through a few more of these. Excuse me. You'll be able to see what it is. But the original calls came from Michael Jackson at that time. Now, let me suggest to you that two telephone calls of one minute each being placed three minutes apart, and only for a maximum duration of four minutes or less, that could be actually three minutes and one second, as Mr. Nicola was effective in pointing out with each of the telephone records people. It will show as four minutes, if it's only one second beyond three. But that could be a reflection of how long his answering machine is, at Chris Tucker's home. And in fact, when you look at Chris Tucker's records of the phone records of his phone for that day, of the 4th of February of '03, you'll see that there are no phone calls made by Chris Tucker. None whatsoever that go out, at least phone records that would have registered, phone calls that would have registered, which means, in all likelihood, Chris Tucker was not there. Gavin Arvizo probably called Chris Tucker. He left two messages, one back-to-back, which is what people do when they max out a message and they call right back and leave a second message for the same duration of time. That's probably what happened. There was no actual conversation between Gavin Arvizo and Chris Tucker at that time. There is then in the early morning, 6:58, this is Pacific Standard time, so that call was placed at 9:58 in the morning by Michael Jackson from the Turnberry Hotel in Florida. The duration of that conversation was 27 minutes. That was the call where Michael Jackson reached Gavin Arvizo and asked him to come and do a press conference. Gavin Arvizo, of course, was 13 years old at the time. He was not about to tell Michael Jackson, “Sure, I can come to Florida, no problem”. Janet Arvizo got on the phone and immediately said, “Of course he is not going to Florida by himself”. And that began a 27-minute conversation between Michael Jackson and Janet Arvizo. And it was in that conversation that Michael Jackson told Janet Arvizo, “This is necessary to protect your child. Your child is in danger”. In that conversation, she talked with her about -- he talked with Janet Arvizo about her ex-husband. He told Janet Arvizo that she knew -- that he knew about the violent relationship that she had had with her ex-husband, David Arvizo, for that entire period of time. He knew exactly what he needed to be able to say to Janet Arvizo to be able to gain her cooperation. He told her that the child was in danger; that there were crazed people out there in response to the presentation of this video. And, “Please, you need to come to Florida”. She agrees. That took 27 minutes, that conversation. Immediately thereafter, as you can see, roughly that same period of time, Michael Jackson called Evvy Tavasci at her home. That's his personal assistant and secretary. Immediately thereafter, there's a call to Jay Jackson's residence. Again, that's to set up the arrangements. There is a call soon thereafter, within an hour and a half or two hours thereafter to Air Apparent. Air Apparent was the travel agency at that time that Michael Jackson was using. That was to make the transportation arrangements. Those records are in evidence. They're there for you to see. In the course of those arrangements, transportation was arranged for a one-way passage to Florida. This was not a round trip. They had no intention on returning this family home as soon as the press conference occurred. It was already decided early on, that once they had the family in their grips, they were going to keep them in their grips, and for good reason. They understood what was going to happen in terms of the press going after this family. And the last thing that they wanted was Gavin Arvizo standing up on some other reporter's television station talking about pornography and booze in that room. That's the last thing they needed. They needed to be able to stem what might be coming out of the mouths of these children and out of the mouth of Janet Arvizo and they needed to be able to profit from it. And they weren't going to profit from it if, in fact, they were giving statements to some other reporter. Something that Janet Arvizo had no intention of doing anyway, and did not do at any time, never mind all the offers that ultimately came in. A series of phone calls later in the afternoon, it's now noon, to MJJ Productions. That's the cell phone. Presumably that's the phone of the person that's going to be driving them, Gary Hearn. Another call a couple minutes later. Another call a couple minutes later to Jay Jackson's residence at 12:17. Again from the cell phone that they called, presumably Gary Hearn, the driver. Another phone call from Evvy. Another phone call here to Chris Tucker. Now, Chris Tucker is in the picture. This is on the 5th, and it's at -- just after 12:30 in the afternoon. They are now making the arrangements that they're going to be going with Chris Tucker. MJ -- and incidentally, Chris Tucker had a flight that was arranged for the day before. This was a flight that was going to take him. He left it there. That plane sat on the tarmac for nine hours, didn't go anywhere. Chris Tucker was billed for the fact that the plane sat on the tarmac for nine hours ready to go. He paid the bill. It was not till the next day that plane left, Chris Tucker's private flight for Miami. Again, a series of phone calls from Chris Tucker to the Jackson limo service. Chris Tucker to, again, the driver. This is now at 3:17 in the afternoon. The driver presumably is Gary Hearn. A call from the Ventura residence to Michael Jackson Productions from Chris Tucker to again that cell phone, and again from Chris Tucker to that cell phone. And they arrived in Florida. And they arrived in Florida very late on the -- on the 6th, or very early on the 6th. They flew late into the early morning. And during the entirety of the 6th, they stayed in Michael Jackson's suite. They did not leave that hotel room, excuse me, at all during that entire time. This was not a vacation for Janet Arvizo. Mr. Mesereau says that she should be grateful because she was extended a vacation in Florida. And you need to understand that she stayed in her room, or in the room or suite of Michael Jackson. When there was finally the presentation of “Living with Michael Jackson”, the American showing, Michael Jackson made it very clear that nobody was to watch that and they were all rounded up and taken up to the suite, and that's where they all stayed during that showing. She has, to this day, never watched it. She's seen clips of it on news. She's seen that image that you saw, but she has never watched the entire presentation. Jay Jackson has, but she hasn't. They stayed that entire day. It was during that entire time that Janet was exposed to quite a few events that were taking place then. She met the two Germans, Dieter Weizner and Ronald Konitzer, and the two of them had her sign a release at that time, except it wasn't a release. The document that you're going to see soon was, in fact, a document that was a blank piece of paper that she signed and later there was an addition to it. Michael Jackson told her very specifically that she was to do what the Germans told her to do. And once again, they asserted the fact that there were people out there who meant to harm her children; that they were in danger; that they had to do this press conference; that this was the only way to relieve the danger to her children. The Germans became, very rapidly, very heavy-handed with her. They were not complimentary by any stretch of the imagination. They were dictating things that she had to do. They scared her from the very beginning and they were having her sign things as well. Now, she was there voluntarily. She had nothing bad to say about Michael Jackson at all. She had never had anything bad to say about Michael Jackson. She believed that he was a good influence in the life of her child. She was appreciative of the generosity that he extended to her family over this period of time. She felt that he was kind to her child when her child was ill. She was very grateful for that. She never had a bad word to say about Michael Jackson at all. The Germans scared her, Dieter and Ronald, and they did from the very beginning, and they did so for a reason. They wanted her cooperation and they believed that that was the way to do it. You need to understand that this was something that was agreed upon as a strategy from the very beginning. They knew that they needed Janet Arvizo's cooperation and they knew that they were not going to get it unless there was a motivation, and they needed to scare her, and that's how they did it. She signed those documents, but something else was going on in Florida at that time. Michael Jackson was renewing a relationship with Gavin Arvizo during this period of time. They were in the room together. He gave him a gift. He gave him the jacket off his back. And he started drinking with him. It was during that time that Gavin had his first drink of alcohol with Michael Jackson. They were together during that entire time. They finally went back on the 7th, in the early part of the 7th. They did not want Janet to be in the vehicle with them, in the plane. They were going to have her take a commercial flight back and she insisted otherwise. And in the course of that flight back, which was about seven or eight hours, in that flight going back, for about seven or eight hours -- You can move on. This is a note -- I'm going to take a moment here before we move on. This was a note that was shown to you, and I want you to take a look at it. This is in evidence. This exhibit right here. Look at the piece of paper and the writing on it, and look at the serration at the very top. This was obviously a piece of paper that was pulled from a small notebook, a spiral notebook. This is a note that was written by Gavin Arvizo to Michael Jackson. This note was discovered in Michael Jackson's bedroom area in a black -- not exactly a briefcase, but more like a suitcase, a black suitcase. That suitcase also contained pornographic magazines, but it had this note. And this is a note that Gavin wrote to him. And in it, he says, “I'm your son. I love you and Prince, Paris and Blanket, but especially I love you. I love all of you a lot”. It's three separate pieces of paper, and Gavin Arvizo indicated that he wrote that. Go to the next one. This was found in exactly the same place. This is a note that he said was written by Michael Jackson. “You have to really be honest in your heart that I am your dad and will take good care of you. Signed, Dad”. “I want you to have a great time in Florida. I'm very happy to be your daddy. Blanket, Prince and Paris are your brother and sisters” -- “brothers and sister. Love, Dad”. All those notes were found together. They were obviously written together at the same time. The notes were written by Gavin and given to Michael Jackson. That other note was written by Michael Jackson to Gavin. One of them brought all of the notes back to Neverland. Likely Michael Jackson. He kept that note, all of the notes. He kept the note from Gavin Arvizo. That note went into the briefcase, in that very briefcase that was in his bedroom, no place else. It was also found pornographic images, and you will see. Now, what is significant about this note? Well, first of all, do you remember the testimony of Janet Arvizo? Do you remember Janet Arvizo telling you that when they were in Florida Michael Jackson said, “We are family. I am your family. I will take care of you. I will protect you. You need to believe that I am your family”? Have you heard that before from other witnesses? In fact, isn't it true that virtually all of the witnesses from the 1993 case who were in some way involved with Michael Jackson, whether it was the Barnes family or whether it was the other family, the Robson family, or whether it was the Chandler family, virtually all of those witnesses said the same thing? Michael Jackson would stress over and over again, “We are family. I am your father. We are family. You have to trust in me”. This note corroborates that testimony. When Janet Arvizo told everybody that that conversation had taken place, she had no way of knowing that one day we would do a search, nine months later, of Neverland and we would recover exactly this note from Michael Jackson. The note has two misspellings in it, “really” and “Blanket”, his own child's name. But that is him. That's his note. It was in his room. And Gavin said that was written to him at the same time. It's clearly from the same piece of paper or the same notepad. That corroborates Janet Arvizo. And once again, she had absolutely no way of knowing that we would eventually find this note at a later time. They're coming back on the plane. This was written obviously in Florida, because they were together. They hadn't seen each other before Gavin arrived in Florida. They're now on the plane and they're heading back. And while they're heading back, there is testimony before you from Gavin and from Janet Arvizo that there were two things that occurred during this flight, this four or five -- five or six hours, five-hours-plus flight heading back. One of the things that occurred was the testimony of Janet Arvizo that she said she saw an unusual event. She saw the defendant lick the top of her son's head. That was also testified to by Star, who said he saw it as well. Neither one told the other until a much later period of time, when they both discovered that the other had seen that particular event. Now, this is in the category of something -- this is like Frank being in the room at the time that pornography is being shown. If they're going to make up events, why would they make up something like this? This is an event that takes place in a public setting. There are plenty of other people in that plane. Dr. Farshshian is in that plane. Mr. Mesereau told you Dr. Farshshian would testify to what he did and did not see. He didn't. All right. There are other people in that plane. The nannies for the children are on that plane. Many other people are on that plane. Why would they make up something like this, and particularly a head-licking event? That is a bizarre activity, by anybody's standard. I mean, the notion of licking the top of the head of a 13-year-old boy. Many of you have had 13-year-old boys living in your household. Some of you may currently have a 13-year-old boy in your household. You would no sooner lick the head of a 13-year-old boy than you would lick the bottom of their shoe, all right? And Janet Arvizo understands that. She understands that this is a pretty bizarre observation. She knew it was bizarre at the time she saw it, and she knew it was bizarre at the time she was saying it. And Janet Arvizo clearly understood that she is not necessarily the most credible person around. She knew that this would be the type of thing that would be hard to believe. That people would react to that observation by saying, “Come on, give me a break”. And yet what happens months later, we come upon a person by the name of Bob Jones. Who is Bob Jones? Bob Jones was the publicist for Michael Jackson for over 30 years. Thirty years the publicist for Michael Jackson. Bob Jones knew Michael Jackson since he was a teenager. He worked with him throughout his entire career, as he was developing his career, when he was in the prime of his career, and up until fairly recently. Bob Jones had a number of communications with a man by the name of Stacy Brown. Stacy Brown was co-writing a book with him about Michael Jackson, and other aspects of his long and distinguished career. Bob Jones came to court reluctantly. He was subpoenaed to come to court. When he took the witness stand, he basically said he didn't remember any such observation. And then we showed him an e-mail that he sent to Stacy Brown, where he says in this e-mail, “I saw Michael Jackson do exactly the same thing to Jordie Chandler ten years earlier, lick the top of his head”. And guess where they were at the time? On an airplane, with Jordie Chandler sitting right next to Michael Jackson in exactly the same fashion that we had on this particular airplane as well. When Janet Arvizo told law enforcement about this event, as bizarre as it was, she had absolutely no way of knowing that we would ultimately produce an entirely credible witness, reluctant, but credible, who would come into court and say he saw him do exactly the same thing to another 13-year-old boy, who looks very much like him, seated next to him on an airplane ten years earlier. Now, Bob Jones was as reluctant as a witness could probably be. He did not want to give testimony against Michael Jackson, the man he had worked for for over 30 years. Until he was shown that e-mail, and then he acknowledged, “If I wrote it in the e-mail, and if I wrote this, it's my e-mail, it is true”. And then, of course, we put Stacy Brown on the witness stand. And Stacy Brown said, “I had a number of conversations with Bob Jones where he told me about that exact observation”, because it's so bizarre, for exactly the reason that we're initially asked to view that event as incredible, it is for exactly that reason that he remembered it, because it is so bizarre, him licking the top of Jordie Chandler's head. Stacy Brown said, “He told me about that on a number of occasions. He sent me e-mails”. And in fact, it's in the manuscript of the book that they are about to publish, exactly that observation. What else happened in the course of that flight? Gavin Arvizo told us that they made crank telephone calls. Michael Jackson's having them make crank telephone calls. Now, we're going to learn a lot about it in the course of this argument as we go on, Michael Jackson encouraging bad behavior from kids who are entrusted to him, who are placed in his trust and in his custody. He wants them engaged in bad behavior. And this is the first instance, other than the drinking. But keep in mind, once again, that this is a statement that Gavin makes that his mother is making him make, because, after all, a shakedown, then why would he make a statement about an event that we can prove or not prove, because this is something that's fairly easy to do. This is Exhibit No. 850 that's before you. This is the records of telephone calls. I suspect you've seen enough phone records probably to last you for a lifetime. But I want you to look at this one. Maybe a few more, but look particularly at this one. This is the Xtra Jet air-ground telephone calls that were coming through. You don't have many occasions to make a telephone call where each telephone call cost $12, okay? Plus a variety of other fees on there. Some of these telephone calls are -- are very legitimate. I mean, the ones to El Monte is obviously the kids calling their home, their grandparents in El Monte. That air linkage time, you have AirLink. That's simply the method of connecting that telephone call through the air. That's all part of the same call. That's -- in other words, 25 and 26 is all one phone call. 26 -- 27, 28, is one telephone call. But look what happens at around number 42 on here. All the way from 42 through 50 -- there's a second page we're going to get to in a moment, but from 42 through 50 are on a series of telephone calls that are all one minute in length. Okay? We have a Santa Ynez one that's probably a legitimate one. But all the rest of them, from 42 on, this is -- this notation right over here where it says, “NM”, that means New Mexico. That's where they're flying over at the time that these phone calls occur. And they begin from about 42 on, at about 8:43 p.m., and in rapid succession, as you see 8:44, 8:46, 8:49, 8:51, each of these telephone calls lasting one minute or less. One minute or less. Go to the next one. Los Angeles up here, once again. 8:52. Then there's a break to 9:03. Excuse me, 9:08. 9:09. Both of these, when it says “short term”, that means that telephone call is for 30 seconds or less. No more than 30 seconds. A prank telephone call. One to New Jersey here. Short term. Here's three different phone calls that are so short they don't even connect. Here's one to New Jersey. California. The El Monte, California, is probably -- is probably a legitimate one. New Jersey. New Jersey. There's a whole bunch of them as they're flying over Arizona now, and moving on. All of these calls are one minute or less. Some of them are 30 seconds or less. They're all different. As you look at these numbers, they're all different. There's probably 18 or 19 telephone calls that are probably exactly what Gavin said they were, prank calls. There is no evidence before you that these are legitimate telephone calls. Dr. Farshshian didn't come in and say, “I made a bunch of prescription fill-in calls to patients while I was on that plane that took one minute or less”. This is direct -- and it's all within a similar period of time. This is roughly a 40-minute period of time. About 19 phone calls are made during that period of time, one minute or less. It is direct corroboration, direct corroboration of Gavin. He had no way of knowing that we would be able to do that. And if these crank calls, in fact, were being made at the time that they were on the plane, then doesn't that really cast doubt as to the testimony of people like Cindy Bell, the stewardess, who says, “During that entire flight I always had an eye on Michael Jackson; that I could tell you exactly what Michael Jackson was doing; that I would have seen if there was any problem going on”. They're making crank calls from this telephone at $12 a shot. Gavin is sitting next to Michael Jackson at that point in time. It is direct corroboration of Gavin Arvizo. It is also corroboration that at a later time in Michael Jackson's bedroom, and in the presence of the younger brothers and sisters of Frank Cascio, Nicole Marie and Aldo Cascio, who they called Baby Rubba, that also they were doing that same game of playing -- of making crank telephone calls and taking drinks of alcohol during that period of time.
The Court: Counsel.
Mr. Zonen: Yes.
The Court: Let's take a break.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. Thank you.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Counsel, you may proceed.
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. I had a moment of panic when I wondered if the microphone I walked into the rest room with was still on. (Laughter.)
Mr. Zonen: It wasn't. February 8th, 2003, they're in Neverland. They had arrived in Neverland on the 7th. Janet Arvizo was never told she was going to Neverland. She was never told anything in terms of what was going to be happening to her and her family from that point on. On the 8th of February, they were joined by Mark Geragos, by the entire 60 Minutes news crew, including Ed Bradley. Janet Arvizo and the children were there. Dieter and Ronald were there. One of them was there at that time, the other one arrived later, I don't remember which. Frank Cascio was there. Michael Jackson was there. The boys at that point were staying with Michael Jackson. And that began five weeks of the boys staying with Michael Jackson, except for those periods of time that he was gone, the brief period of time that they were in Los Angeles when Janet finally grabbed them and left, and the period of time that they were at the Calabasas hotel, The Country Inn & Suites in Calabasas while they were getting all the arrangements done for their departure for Brazil. Keep in mind, barely five days earlier, Janet Arvizo was minding her own business in her own home, with her children healthy, all healthy children, and in a new relationship that ultimately ended up in a marriage. At this point, five days later, they're planning on sending her to Brazil. She was at Neverland over the next five days. Did not return home during that time. During that period of time, she worked with the two Germans, Ronald and Dieter. They prepared for this video that they were going to be doing. They were briefing her on what she needed to be saying. They were coaching her on what she needed to be saying. The boys more and more were separated from her. They were staying with Michael Jackson in his room during that period of time. Once again, she was being encouraged to believe that outside of Neverland was a danger situation for her children. And once again, the threats became more oppressive. They are now no longer against just Gavin, but they were threats against Gavin, his brother, his sister, and in fact the threats have extended to Janet herself and to her parents. They were no longer just threats that there were people out there who would cause her harm, crazed fans, sort of an obscure sort of person that nobody quite -- could quite describe. But, in fact, at this point there were threats that specifically were coming from the two Germans in terms of, “We know where your parents live. We can make people disappear”. She had enough by the early morning hours of the 12th. She had enough by the early morning hours of the 12th. At one or two o'clock in the morning, she finally went to Jesus Salas, who was the house manager at that time, and speaking in Spanish with him, she asked him to please take her home, and the kids home. Janet Arvizo, for all of her shortcomings, for all of her shortcomings, understood that Neverland is not the place to have her children long-term. That might be nice for a day visit. But it's not where you want to have children long-term. She grabbed her kids, they got in the car with Jesus Salas, and he drove them to her mother's house in El Monte. Now, that began a whole series of events that took place at that point. This was on the 12th when they finally took off. But there were immediately a whole collection of telephone calls that next day. Now, granted, understand this was the early morning hours of the 12th. By the time the 12th was done with, look what was going on in terms of telephone calls. 38 separate telephone calls between Frank Cascio and Marc Schaffel. 38 separate phone calls. There are two calls between Mark Geragos and Brad Miller. And three between Brad Miller and Marc Schaffel. There were three phone calls between Frank Cascio and Mark Geragos. There was one three-way phone call between Mark Geragos, Brad Miller and Marc Schaffel. But look at the collection of calls, 19, between Frank Cascio and Vincent Amen. What is going on? 38 telephone conversations between Frank Cascio and Marc Schaffel. 38. What is going on at this point? The answer is, they escaped. Literally escaped, as preposterous as that sounds. Who would want to escape from Neverland? But they did. She grabbed her kids, and at one or two o'clock in the morning, they got out of there. And immediately what this entire collection of people, all working for and around Mark Geragos and Frank Cascio and Marc Schaffel, all realized that this was a very difficult situation and even dangerous situation for them, because they needed to produce this video, because this video was going to be contained in the “Take 2” program that was going to be shown in just a few days. I believe it was on the 21st, late at night, that that performance was going to be shown on FOX television, FOX Studios. There was a tremendous amount of money riding on all of this, and their expectation and their promotion was that Janet Arvizo was going to be part of this production, and now she left. On the 13th, the very next day, a series, again, of phone calls. Four between Marc Schaffel and Mark Geragos. Four between Mark Geragos and Ann Kite. Mark Geragos's answer to every question I asked him, every single one, about the content of any telephone conversation that he had with anyone was, “I don't really recall. I was kind of in the dark on all of this”. On the 19th, over that period of time, a whole collection of telephone calls as they lead to the filming. But before we get to this, let me talk a little bit about what happened in that in-between period of time. Janet Arvizo was the recipient of many telephone calls from Frank Cascio. Many of them. And in the course of one or more of those conversations, there was a tape-recording made. That tape-recording was made by Frank Cascio. Excuse me, that tape-recording was of a telephone call involving Frank Cascio, but it was made by Brad Miller. And we recovered it when we seized -- when we searched Brad Miller's office and seized that tape-recording. There was an expert who testified, a man who came from the Los Angeles area, works in the aerospace industry, and who also does work analyzing tape-recordings to determine authenticity. His testimony to you was that that tape, which goes over 20 minutes, it's 20-plus minutes, that that tape was, in all likelihood, a second-generation tape, and in fact there were 34 breaks in that tape. In other words, somebody started and stopped that tape 34 times. Well, the “somebody” is Brad Miller. It's not likely to be anybody else under the circumstances. Mark Geragos told you that that telephone call was tape-recorded because they were certain at that point that Janet Arvizo was going to shake them down for money. In other words, it was going to be in that telephone conversation that there was going to be the demand by Janet Arvizo that they pay money. That statement was not true. When he testified to that, he was not giving you truthful testimony. There was never the expectation by either Mark Geragos or Brad Miller or Frank Cascio that Janet Arvizo would ever ask for a penny in the course of that conversation. And you can tell by the nature of the conversation. If this was a conversation where they were going to be talking about a shakedown, then that conversation would have begun with Frank Cascio saying to Janet Arvizo, “All right. You asked for a million dollars in a numbered account in the Cayman Islands, let's talk about that. What do we get if we give you a million dollars in a numbered account in the Cayman Islands?” That's what that conversation would begin with. This conversation was very different. I'd like you to go to that. These are either a series of telephone conversations or a single telephone conversation that had been edited 34 times. It may be more than one conversation. It may be many. We don't know. Brad Miller didn't testify in this case. The first thing that she begins to talk about is the Germans: Frank: “What happened?” Janet: “It's just those German people. You don't imagine”. Janet: “Those people terrify me, Frank. They were threatening. They were terrifying”. Frank: “Like I said, you don't, like, like I said, I promise you, Janet, you don't have to talk to them anymore”. Janet: “Because they were trying to dictate to me exactly what to say”. Janet: “Are the German guys there?” Frank: “No, don't worry. And if -- they're not there. And if they are -- they're not there, I know that for a fact. But if they are, you don't have to talk to them. You just talk -- it's unsafe”. This came up continuously in the course of this telephone conversation between the two of them. Frank: “Let us take care of you. Let us protect you. Now is not the right time to be out there alone”. Frank: “No, no, that's not what I'm worried about. I'm worried because you and -- you and -- the protection, because there's a lot of evil people out there right now”. “Frank: That's why even staying another night alone is not safe, so I want to talk to Gavin and see if he's okay, but then I want to talk to you and we can make some arrangements”. “Frank: And when you left like that, it was just so dangerous, and we were so worried about you”. “Frank: I'm going to get you guys out of there into a safe place tonight. I need you to be safe, and I need your family to be safe”. Janet says, “Okay”. Frank says, “To you and to your family, because you know how vindictive people can be”. Now, Janet Arvizo came into this courtroom and told you that over and over and over they were telling her it was very dangerous outside of Neverland. And that she, in fact, had to be at Neverland. She had no way of knowing that this conversation was being tape-recorded. She was never told that. She had no way of knowing that we would some day recover that tape-recording. This corroborates her testimony 100 percent. Janet doesn't want money. Remember, this was the whole purpose of tape-recording this telephone call, according to Mark Geragos. This was the telephone call where Janet was going to make a demand for money. “Don't” -- “Don't worry, Frank, I can't be bought”. Remember when she says that in there? We have no idea what they cut out of this tape-recording, but this is the part that they left in. This is exactly the opposite of what is the pretense for them tape-recording this telephone call in the first place. “Don't worry, Frank, I can't be bought”. Janet says, “Are, like, crazy here”. Frank says, “Who?” Janet says, “The reporters and stuff. And we haven't talked to a single person, Frank”. She can talk to anybody she wants. This is America. If she wants to sell her story, she can sell her story. And what is she doing? She's not talking to anybody. She's not accepting any offer, and there are -- offers abound. “And, you know, Frank, I have -- my mom's table is filled with offers and stuff like that. And I didn't take a single penny”, is what she says to Frank. They're recording this conversation. There are parts that they are cutting out, but this they don't cut out. She goes on: “It's like -- it's like crazy. Can I read you one of the letters? It's like all kinds of things and it's of no interest to me, because family never leaves family behind, you know”. This is Janet. This is Janet telling Frank that her biggest concern is friends and family. She has no interest at all in profiting off Michael Jackson. Once again, she has never asked for a penny from Michael Jackson. Michael Jackson's statements, now listen to this. This is all from Frank, the person who is quite possibly the closest person at Neverland. The closest person among Michael Jackson's entire entourage is Frank Cascio, and look what he says: “Michael would love to see you. He is so worried. Michael cares about you and your family, entire family, and we would not mislead you. Michael has been missing you. Michael wants to see you. He was almost -- he didn't know what happened. He thought he did something and he was trying to get in touch with you. And I said, 'Don't worry, I'll take care of this'”. Frank: “We didn't know that, where you went. Michael didn't know. Nobody knew anything. I know Michael would love for you to come back to the ranch”. Look at that. “I know Michael would love for you to come back to the ranch”. Who is it who's trying to get this family back at Neverland? Who is exploiting whom here? “You need to go back up to the ranch and see Michael because he's very concerned. He's concerned about you and Gavin and Star and your daughter”. The trip. Now, this part is pretty interesting, because you get a sense here as to what exactly it is that they may have cut out. Understand that they don't want anybody to know about this Brazil trip. But look what the statements are here: Frank: “Michael -- we were all going to go away”. And this includes Michael Jackson, is his representation to her. Exactly consistent with her testimony, exactly consistent with what she said in the interviews. This is a trip to Brazil and Michael Jackson is personally coming as well. “Michael -- we are all going to go away. We are gonna -- we are actually going to take you to a really great place that -- I was going to take you first, and Michael and the rest of them was going to come join us”. “For the safety of everyone, and trust me, where are you going to go? You're going to have an unbelievable time. I'm going to take you dancing every single night”. Remember her response to that? She said, “Oh, that's okay, Frank. I just want you guys' hugs”. Janet Arvizo has never asked for anything other than friendship and compassion. Ever. Frank: “I'm going to just let you and Michael -- we're all going to have to go someplace, including Michael, from what's going on, and it's going to be a fun trip. Even my brother and sister are going to be coming out”. In the course of that telephone call, she never makes a demand for a single penny. In the course of that telephone call, there was never an offer of a single penny. And in the course of that telephone call she assures Frank she doesn't want money, has never asked for money, is not going to sell her story, is not going to say anything bad about Michael Jackson at all. They stayed together. She stays in Los Angeles until the 19th. She finally makes the determination that she is going to do the video. They are desperate at this point with regards to the video. They are desperate because they want this thing prepared and done and completed in time for the production that's going to take place. Frank: “But one thing I would love for you to do, and this would really help Michael, if you could tell your story, because you know this whole documentary we're dealing, and this is, like I said, you don't have to talk to the Germans. You don't have to do anything. We would love for you to go tape and just say something beautiful about Michael. “Because they are trying to dictate...”. And here's her answer. Listen to this: “Because they are trying to dictate to me what exactly to say”. That is exactly what she's been complaining about all along. She has no trouble saying a few good words about Michael Jackson. Up to this point, she has had not one reason in the world to be angry or upset with him, other than what she saw on the plane of him licking the head, and she had no idea what that was all about. Other than that, there was no reason to be upset with Michael Jackson, nor did she ever express it. When asked if she would say good words about him, she said, “Fine”. She was upset with the Germans and how they were behaving and what they were telling her about the danger to her and her children and what they were saying about what she had to say. “But you know? I know there are things and the way” -- the way doing. They were going to take you down to see me, actually, because we were going to do the whole interview the next day, remember? But, listen, you don't ever have to deal with them again”. That was the conversation that took place. She went back. She made the determination she still wasn't going back to Neverland. She caused them to have to move that interview to Hamid Moslehi's house in Calabasas. And at that point that interview took place there. In the course of that interview, she had that conversation with Vicki Podberesky. That conversation was limited entirely to the concerns that she would have the following morning when she had to address Child Protective Services. She gave that interview. It was well over the top. She was filled with praise for Michael Jackson, praise for things he never did, and praise for things he did do. That business of helping the kids with their homework and spending time and curing her son of cancer, stuff that he obviously didn't do. But she did what was asked of her, and she did it for a variety of different reasons. One, she liked Michael Jackson and was happy to do that for him. Two, she believed them when they said, “You have to do this to protect the well-being of your children”. And, three, she believed that there was a correlation between what she said in that interview and ultimately whether her children would be taken away from her. She understood that if she made sure the Child Protective workers understood that Michael Jackson was a decent and loving man who was protecting her children and helping her children, and not causing harm for her children, that she would be able to keep her children. And that was her motivation as she went through that next thing. From the 21st to the 25th, they went about the efforts -- they went back to Neverland, the entire family. These kids have now been at Neverland or out of school or in the presence of Michael Jackson since the 5th of February. It is now between the 21st and the 25th, and all of them have been staying at Neverland. On the 25th, they go to Calabasas, they stay in Calabasas. And let me go back just one moment, and I'll move back to Calabasas again. What you see here is Exhibit 413, and this is the consent and release agreement. Remember Mr. Mesereau telling that you she was negotiating for more money? Well, this was the agreement that was originally furnished to her that she did not sign. This is the one that she did sign. As you can see, there was no offer of money in any way. She has never asked for money. They never gave her money. This simply released her and allowed them to be able to use her image, to be able to profit from it. The second release is the one that waives rights on behalf of her children, as well. So that they can use the image of her children in this production. That she asked for no money in any of this; has never asked for any money in any of this at all. During the period of time -- during the period of time between the 25th, the period of time between the 25th and the 2nd of March, Janet Arvizo and the kids stayed at a hotel in Calabasas. She had at this point reconciled herself to the fact that she was heading off to Brazil. She had had the interview with the Child Protective Services. That interview was tape-recorded. It was tape-recorded by -- until she turned the tape off, because she believed that the tape-recording was illegal. That tape-recording was done by an employee of Mark -- an employee of Brad Miller, the private investigator who worked for Mark Geragos. Mark Geragos told you he knew nothing about it. That is probably unbelievable. Of course, he told you he knew nothing about anything, and we'll get to Mark Geragos a little bit further on. That tape-recording was made and it eventually ended up on television. Ultimately we received a copy of that tape-recording from the defense, and that was the copy that was played for you, in its entirety, until she finally turned that tape-recording off. Between the 25th and the 2nd, the 25th of February and the 2nd of March, they made the arrangements to go to Brazil. She obviously at this point agreed that she was going to go to Brazil. She was never happy about it under any circumstances. And why would she be? She had a child who was sick and needed continuous medical attention. She was scared. She was worried. She was in a new relationship. She didn't trust the people who were dictating what was going on in her life at this point, but she was convinced that she needed to leave the country at that point. They got passports, they got visas, they got her birth certificate. They got the court records that showed that she had sole custody of her children, custody having been taken away from her ex-husband, David Arvizo. They took them shopping. They got new clothes for this trip. They got luggage for her to be able to pack all of this stuff. And they were making the arrangements to go. They went back to Neverland on the 2nd of March, and guess who returned to Neverland at exactly that time? Michael Jackson. And you'll see from the Air Apparent records that he had actually flown his family from Neverland out to Florida the very day before, leaving the family behind in Florida. He then returned back to Neverland on the 2nd of March, as he was then reunited after this five-day absence with Gavin and Star. Gavin and Star both go back into his bedroom during that period of time. During that period of time, they stayed in his bedroom the entire time from the 2nd of March to the 10th of March, with the exception of two nights. There were two nights that Michael Jackson went to a hotel in Los Angeles. Excuse me. That was the night of the 7th and the night of the 8th. Other than that, these boys were in Michael Jackson's bedroom the entire time. It was during this period of time that the behavior had turned to something horribly illegal. On the 9th of March, Janet Arvizo had her child begin the collection of a 24-hour sample, urine sample, for a creatinine testing at Kaiser Hospital. Gavin was still under the care of a doctor, and receiving regular appointments and regular checkups. Once again, the reason why she would not pick up and simply move this family to Brazil. The urine collection was the 24-hour urine collection that was put in a large container and it would be taken to the hospital for the test. In the morning hours of the 10th of March, she received a telephone call from her son Gavin, four o'clock in the morning. And he explained to her for the first time that Michael Jackson was giving them alcohol. And he was worried because this test, as he had told -- as Gavin had told Michael Jackson, Michael Jackson came to believe that this test would reveal that the children were given alcohol and could cause problems for him. Michael Jackson wanted Gavin to throw it away and cancel the test. And he, in fact, wouldn't do that. Janet Arvizo was very upset at hearing this, very concerned about hearing this. This is the first time that she had ever expressed anything negative about Michael Jackson, that he would give her child, who had suffered from cancer, who suffers still from an immune deficiency problem because of that. Alcohol was just unspeakable for her. And she sent her daughter Davellin to the house at six o'clock in the morning to gain entry, to get Gavin, to get them out so that they could leave. Davellin pounded on the door. There was no response, no answer. Remember Macaulay Culkin talking about Michael Jackson has an open-door policy? Well, apparently not on that day. She wasn't able to rouse anybody. It wasn't until much later that morning that she finally arranged with Vinnie and Gavin that they were going to go to the Kaiser Hospital. On the way to Kaiser Hospital there was a stop. She used a rest room. When she came back in, the urine had been spilled. Vinnie spilled out the urine. Said it was an accident. Spilled out the urine. There wasn't a sufficient quantity to test. There was no blood test that was done at that time either. But Janet at this point knew that there was a serious problem. And I want you to think about something. From the moment that Janet Arvizo understood that Michael Jackson posed a direct threat to her child -- and this was not molestation. That wasn't what she was thinking. It was alcohol being furnished to a child who was sick and still undergoing medical attention. From the moment she learned that, 36 hours later, her children were out of Neverland and never went back. 36 hours. Contrast that against Liz Barnes, who allowed her child to sleep in Michael Jackson's bed for over a year. Contrast that against Joy Robson, who took thousands of dollars from Michael Jackson and allowed her child to spend months at a time in that bedroom. Contrast that even against June Chandler, who today understands what she did wrong. And today regrets the fact that she has even lost her child because of his association with Michael Jackson. But who also allowed Michael Jackson to spend months in bed -- in her own house, in bed with her son at age 13. For all her shortcomings, for all her shortcomings, Janet Arvizo, within 36 hours of learning that Michael Jackson was giving her child alcohol, had all three of her kids out of Neverland and they never went back. And that was amid a great deal of pressure from a lot of very highly paid people during that period of time. On the 10th, when she went to the hospital to furnish the sample of urine, she made this ruse about going to a beauty parlor in West L.A., and in that beauty parlor she called Jay Jackson. Jay Jackson came. She said she was not going back to the ranch. They took Gavin back to the ranch. On the next day she had a court appearance, on the 11th. They went to that court appearance. Vinnie was supposed to bring the kids. Vinnie came. He never brought the kids. That next day was the 11th. They understood very clearly that they had to get the kids out of there, and that began the process of doing so. They then hatched a plot with her mother, Maria Ventura, who you met. You heard her testimony. Again, use common sense. Is she making all of that stuff up? You saw her, you saw her demeanor, you heard the words out of her mouth as it was translated to you. The testimony was in Spanish. But they had to use a ploy to be able to get those kids delivered from Neverland over to their house. And they were delivered there. And they never went back. And Maria Ventura's testimony to you was that she did not even recognize these children by the time they got back. And certainly she did not recognize Gavin. Angry, hostile, confrontational, very upset that he had been taken away from Neverland during that period of time. Very upset. She testified to you that even today he is not the same child that he was before he met Michael Jackson. What happened at Neverland during that period of time? I mean, what was going on at Neverland when they were there. Well, you need to understand a little bit of what the grooming process is. What happens to a child who is exposed to a predator, and particularly a predator who has a great deal of money and a great deal of influence over children, and has the ability, because of his reputation and his position, not in the community, but the international community as a celebrity, to be able to work with children in ways that nobody else can possibly imagine? The first thing that begins with children at Neverland is that they're separated from their parents, and they're separated from authority, and they are separated from discipline. During the five weeks that these children were exposed to Michael Jackson, they've had no schooling. They had no homework. They had no discipline. Their mother, when she was there, basically stayed in her room. The kids stayed with Michael Jackson. They ran free. They did whatever they wanted to do. They played all of the games that are in Neverland. They rode on the rides. They drove the golf carts around. They drove the quads. They went to the zoo. They ate whatever they wanted, which for a 12- and 13-year-old means candy. They ate enormous amounts of sugar, candy, ice cream, soda pop, whenever they wanted. When they didn't want to eat, they didn't eat. There was no discipline, there was only fun. They played with video games, and they were clearly the best video games that had ever been invented. They played with all manner of toys. They watched movies. They did whatever they wanted to do during the course of the day. And at night, they entered into the world of the forbidden. At night they went into Michael Jackson's room, which is a veritable fortress. It is a room that nobody else has access to. It is a room that has codes and locks and multiple doors and alarm systems, and they knew all of those alarm systems and all of those codes, and they stayed there, and they knew all of that information because Michael Jackson wanted them to know all of that information. And inside that room, in the evening time, they entered the world of the forbidden and they learned about human sexuality from somebody who is only too willing to be their teacher. And that discussion began with looking at magazines. Looking at pornography. Looking at a collection of sexually explicit material. It began with very frank discussions about sexuality designed to reduce their inhibitions. It began with discussions about masturbation. It began with discussions about nudity. It included a presentation by himself, nude, to them, to these children. It included an act of simulating a sex act on a mannequin that was up in the room. Now, again, I ask you, Mr. Mesereau is going to say these kids made all of this up and they made all of this up at the behest of Janet Arvizo. And when he says that to you, you need to ask yourself, does common sense suggest that that's how it happened, when we find a mannequin in that room, exactly the mannequin that they talked about nine months later? Janet was never up in that room. Does that make sense that they would find -- that they would find this thing that corroborates the testimony of these boys so well when they talk about him presenting himself nude? Who made that up? It simply has the ring of truth to it. And as you apply your common sense to this evidence, you see that that's true, particularly given the wealth of poverty -- of pornography that is found in that room. Not just that room but in other places at Neverland as well, something that clearly all of them understand. The grooming process takes a while. It takes a while. Not a terribly long while, but a while. And it begins with the selection of a vulnerable child, because a child who comes from a healthy household with two parents, two loving parents who are watching carefully over their children, is a much harder hold, to get a foothold in for a predator than would be a child from a broken home with only one parent, and with one parent who deals with her own collection of disabilities. That is a much more vulnerable home. And when you look at all the other kids, you will realize that there's a common theme with all of them. There's no father in the picture in virtually all of them. In the Barnes family, in the Robson family. There was no child (sic) in the Chandler family. There was no father in the picture. Jason Francia, there was no father in the picture. And at this point, there was no father in the picture for Gavin Arvizo either. And in the case of their mother, as well meaning as she was, this is a person who had endured 16 or 17 years of domestic violence, and an additional year of watching her son almost die, and she simply lacked the emotional wherewithal to be able to deal with all that was going on at Neverland, as hard as she tried. And even given her limited sophistication and understanding, she still, more than any of the others, understood that Neverland was not the place for her children to be, and she battled valiantly to get those kids the heck out of there. So what happened over that particular period of time? Well, the vulnerable child is the one who simply doesn't have the protection. A colleague of mine uses the expression, he says, “The lion on the Serengeti doesn't go after the strongest antelope. The lion on the Serengeti goes after the weakest antelope”. All predators go after the weakest, not the strongest. To distinguish the weakest in terms of children is the level of protection their parents are able or unable to afford. And in this case, this was the vulnerable child. Now, Gavin stood up here, at age 15, and he testified for you. This is why we thought it was so important that you see the actual disclosure in the tape when he was 13 years old, and for the first time disclosed to Steve Robel what had happened to him. But as he stood up here at age 15, think about this for a moment. He stood before you at age 15 and in a room that's filled with people. It was filled with people back then. There's 20 jurors sitting in this box. There's a collection of people sitting up here, and there's Michael Jackson, the man that he once held in such high regard, the man that he loved, the man that he spent endless nights in bed with in the most intimate manner possible. And he stood up here, at age 15, in a room filled with people, and there's no question that the people out there, a good number of them, are press, national press. He knew that his words were going to be showing up everywhere. It is a large collection of people out there. That had to be intimidating for him. It's intimidating for me. You look out there, there are faces out there you recognize. Some of them I even like. (Laughter.)
Mr. Zonen: What would it have been like for a 15-year-old child? And talking about what? Talking about the most sensitive subject matter possible. The fact that he had been molested by a man he once loved, a man he held in very high regard. And he plugged through it. And he talked about what happened. And he talked about this entire process of, over a period of weeks, being shown sexually graphic material, being talked to about intimate sexual matters, being oriented into the world of sexuality at age 13, and sharing a bed with him. And finally he described to you an act of lying in bed, drinking, having been drinking on numerous occasions, drinking every night to a point of intoxication, and he described to you two events that he said he was sober enough to be able to give descriptions with some level of accuracy. He believed that there were more events, but those were two that he was able to describe to you. And he described the defendant lying in bed with him and reaching his hand into his pajama bottoms and fondling his genitalia, and at least on one occasion to the point where he ejaculated. And he described that, a 15-year-old boy. All of you have known or know a 15-year-old boy. And you have got to understand that that may be probably the second most difficult moment in his life. The first most difficult moment was that moment you saw on tape as he sat with Steve Robel and for the first time ever disclosed what happened to him. That has got to be a difficult moment. And yet we are supposed to believe, we are supposed to believe that what he said was all made up, because there's some expectation that in the future he would become a wealthy person. This is a 15-year-old child. All of you have dealt with children at one time or the other. All of you understand that the expectation of telling a child, “Do this for me now, and in two weeks, something good will happen for you”, that the response that you get from that teenager is something along the line of, “Whatever”. That it is almost impossible to assure from a child that they will receive some expectation of gratitude or appreciation of something that will happen at sometime down the line. The suggestion that this child should subject himself to the humiliation of this kind of an ordeal and the ordeal of going through that interview with Steve Robel that you watched, and you watched that twisted response of a small child having to disclose for the first time those kinds of words at age 13. The suggestion that all of this was planned and plotted and it was simply nothing more than a shakedown, a good acting job, is nonsense. It's unmitigated rubbish. You cannot do that to a child. It would be impossible to do, even if he was motivated to do it, and he wasn't. And he wasn't. Would you go to the experts, please, Katz? Now, there were a number of witnesses who testified in this proceeding. And I'm going to be quoting Stan Katz at this moment, who is of course the person who was retained by Larry Feldman to evaluate these children at the time. These are questions that he answered: “A pre-adolescent or adolescent boy is hypersensitive about his sexuality”. “It would be extremely unusual for a child who's developmentally at a stage where he's trying to figure out who he is, and to actually become a man, to make an allegation which would suggest that he's had inappropriate sexual relationships with a male”. This is somebody who has been doing this for many years and has the reputation of being conservative in his determinations that sexual molestation took place. “It would be extremely rare, because these children are so protective and so guilt-ridden and shamed by any behavior that's extraordinary and ultra-normal”. “In my experience, a child who is going to lie and fabricate cannot be consistent and hold that very long, because children are impulsive. They can't delay gratification. You can't tell a child, 'Years from now, if you lie, something good will happen'”. All right. Now, Stan Katz obviously was a witness who was hired by Mr. Feldman. There is every expectation that Mr. Mesereau will say, “Well, he's biased in his view. He was paid by Feldman. Obviously he's on one side”. But let's look at some of the comments, if we could, by Dr. Esplin. Dr. Esplin was, of course, the expert who was retained by the defense, who was called by Mr. Sanger. And look at a number of the questions that he answered to. “All right. Doctor, in terms of disclosures, you agree with Dr. Urquiza” -- Dr. Urquiza testified for the prosecution. “You agree with Dr. Urquiza that you really can't draw any conclusion from a child reporting late; isn't that true?” “Yes”. “And you would agree with Dr. Urquiza when he says that the time and even the manner in which one discloses is not necessarily reflective of the truth of the allegation?” And he says, “Yes”. “And in fact, children often report in piecemeal. They give a little information now, and a little information later, and more information after that; would that be true? That's not unusual?” And his answer is: “I would agree with that, but you're talking about that they don't tell you everything there is to tell on the initial disclosure”. Dr. Esplin was the retained expert for the defense who testified, and as I started asking him questions about what might you logically see in the case of the consenting victim, the victim who's in a relationship with the offender, not one who's abducted off the street, but one who is in a consenting relationship with the defendant, with the suspect, one who has been groomed to be able to behave appropriately, because you need to understand, it's not that hard to molest a child. What's hard is getting away with it. In other words, you need to develop the relationship where you have the confidence that the child will not reveal what's going on, that the child will accept what's going on. Sometimes that the child will even enjoy engaging in acts that a 13-year-old would otherwise find repulsive, and you do that by developing a relationship. Befriending a nonrelated child. Spending a great deal of time with a nonrelated child. Providing the child with extravagant gifts or money. In this case, that child had been given not just extravagant gifts or money, but gifts that are personal to the defendant: The jacket off of his back, a watch off of his wrist, a watch that he represents is worth $75,000. I don't know anything about expensive watches. That one looks a lot less than that, but that's what he represented to Gavin at the time, “That's a watch worth $75,000”. Taking the child to fun places. Doing fun things. This is Dr. Esplin, their own witness. What could be more fun than everything that is Neverland? Bestowing special privileges. Shares intimate moments. What could be more intimate than going to bed with a person night after night after night, but staying in the same room, sequestered in his suite, locked away from the rest of the world, even locked away from the rest of Neverland? Gavin Arvizo is the child in the upper left. Brett Barnes is the child in the upper right. Jordie Chandler is the child on the lower left. And on the lower right is Jason Francia. I want to talk to you now about some of the corroboration that we've presented in this particular case. There was a collection of testimony from different witnesses who came before you, and I'm going to start with Jason Francia. Jason Francia today is 24 years old. I apologize, I have a bit of a cold. But I'll get through this, okay? Jason Francia today is 24 years old. He is very actively involved in his church. When he was 13 years -- excuse me, when he was ten years old, he was molested by Michael Jackson. In fact, he had been molested on two previous occasions by Michael Jackson. On the first of those occasions, which could date back as young as age seven, Mr. Jackson fondled his genitalia on the outside of his clothing. That happened a second time. And then finally on the third occasion, when he was about ten years old, it was by putting his hand on the inside of his shorts up through the leg and fondling his genitalia, skin to skin. That event occurred when he was about ten. He was the son of a maid who worked for Michael Jackson. Today, he's 24 years old. This was disclosed when he was 13. It was disclosed in conjunction with the investigation that took place surrounding the allegations about Jordie Chandler in the civil suit that was filed by Larry Feldman on behalf of Jordan Chandler back in 1993 and 1994. Jason Francia went through five years of therapy after the resolution of their civil case in his favor. Over five years, up until age of 18, and at the age of 18, he stopped his therapy, and he went and became involved with his church. Over the next six years, he went through a program, an apprenticeship program to become a youth pastor at that church, and today is a youth pastor, but as well is the director of a youth mentorship program at that church. In other words, they take at-risk children, at-risk children, and they work with them to show them that there are alternatives to being involved with gangs, to being involved with drugs, to being involved with criminal behavior. And as he said it to you, one of the alternatives is the discovery of God. There is absolutely no reason to believe that Jason Francia has anything to gain by coming into this courtroom and testifying about what happened to him when he was ten years old and when he was younger. Not only does he have nothing personal to gain by it, he is not selling his story. He is not going to a tabloid. He has never sold his story. He has never gone to a tabloid. The civil claim that was settled back when he was 13 years old had nothing to do with him. Nobody asked his permission or his involvement. He had no idea that his mother had sold her story for $20,000 until just days before he walked into the courtroom. Jason Francia appears to be the kind of young man you want living next door to you. He is an absolutely -- a delightful young person and there's just no indication that there's anything about his personality or character that could be defined in any way other than absolutely beyond reproach, a man of impeccable character and integrity. He came into this courtroom and he testified that he was molested by Michael Jackson. Michael Jackson paid money to his mother and to him to settle that claim against him, as did he do for Jordie Chandler. “Very favorably resolved”, as Mr. Feldman said. If you believe that Jason Francia testified truthfully as he testified before you, then Michael Jackson is a child molester. If you believe that his testimony is truthful, and you have no reason in the world not to believe it, it's corroborated by the fact that Michael Jackson paid this kid off, and the mother, and it's corroborated by the fact that -- frankly, the testimony of Gavin himself. But it is mostly corroborated by this child himself, whose presentation before you was absolutely sincere and painful. You watched him struggle through his testimony in very much the same way that Gavin struggled through his, both on that video and in court as well. This is not an easy subject for an adolescent boy, and it doesn't get easier when they get into their 20s. He testified to you that he never told his mother. To this day he has never told his mother. Gavin told you exactly the same thing. He has never told his mother what happened. Jason Francia told you on the witness stand that he never told his wife he had just married within the last month before the testimony; that she was hearing it for the first time sitting in the courtroom. This is not the type of thing that adolescent boys talk about or disclose. It is not easy. The suggestion that his testimony was contrived and part of a plot to shake down a celebrity is nonsense. You'll notice they never accused Chris Tucker of anything. They never accused George Lopez of anything. There were a variety of celebrities that they were exposed to when Gavin was sick. None of them have ever been the recipient of any accusation whatsoever. June Chandler testified in this particular case. June Chandler testified that her child was saturated with telephone calls, many telephone calls over a long period of time, long calls going hours. Exactly what Gavin said. This is what he does. This is how he begins his relationship. June Chandler testified that they went on trips together. They traveled to Las Vegas. They traveled to Monaco. They traveled to Paris. They traveled to New York. They traveled to Florida together. This whole family. He took them many, many places. June Chandler testified that he gave the mother a diamond Cartier bracelet. June Chandler testified that she got a gift certificate from Michael Jackson from Fred Siegel, a higher-end clothing store in Los Angeles. $7,000. And what was his relationship with her child? While he was wining and dining the family, and again there was no father in the picture during this time, he was coming to June Chandler's home every day at about three o'clock after school let out, and he would spend the balance of that day and night - and night - with Jordie Chandler, the balance of the day and nights in his room, in his bed, until the next morning, when Jordie would go off to school and Michael Jackson would then leave and return at three o'clock the next day. This went on for weeks and weeks. It was at least 30 days that this was going on. And that doesn't count the period of time that they were traveling to places like Monaco and Paris and New York and Florida and Las Vegas during this period of time. June Chandler has lost her son as a consequence of this. She hasn't had a conversation or seen her son since he was 13 years old. When all of this came to light, the investigation occurred, he went to live with his father. There is no reason to disbelieve anything June Chandler said. In that lawsuit, she got a settlement as well, and that settlement was at the request of the defense, and it was at the request of the defense because it included within that settlement a provision that she not discuss any aspect of Michael Jackson or that settlement. That money that she got was to buy her silence, and it did until this came along. Ralph Chacon testified in this trial. Ralph Chacon testified that he saw Michael Jackson in a shower with Jordie Chandler. He believed that Jordie Chandler was young at the time. Both of them were nude. He saw it through the window into the shower. He saw Michael Jackson caressing his hair, he saw him kissing his head, kissing his face, once against kissing his head. Again corroboration of what Janet saw on the plane. She saw him -- he saw him kissing his mouth. He saw Michael Jackson with his hands all over Jordie's body, kissing his nipples, and then finally putting Jordie Chandler's penis in his mouth. He said he went back to the house at that time. He said he saw them leave the shower with the bathing suits left behind. He said he saw them leaving with Jordie Chandler up on Michael Jackson's shoulders wearing only a towel, obviously nothing else. The bathing suits had been left behind in the shower room. You saw a separate occasion of them standing in front of the Peter Pan display as Michael Jackson kissed him and ran his hands down his crotch. Ralph Chacon acknowledged that at a later time he was involved in a lawsuit. He lost that lawsuit. He declared bankruptcy. There was over a million-dollar judgment entered against him as a counterclaim by Michael Jackson, but you need to understand something. The disclosure of what he saw that day was made under oath, in testimony under oath, a year prior to that lawsuit taking place. It was made under oath after he had been contacted by attorneys representing the defendant, including Robert Sanger. And he refused, refused at that time, to give statements to them. That testimony was done under oath well in advance of that matter. There was the testimony of Kassim Abdool. Kassim Abdool testified that he saw very much the same thing in terms of Jordie Chandler walking out of that shower on the shoulders wearing that towel. There was the testimony of Adrian McManus. Adrian McManus gave testimony that she saw Wade Robson being kissed by Michael Jackson with his hand on his buttocks. That she saw Brett Barnes in bed together with Michael Jackson, something Brett Barnes readily acknowledged. That she saw Macaulay Culkin being kissed on the cheek with a hand on his rear end. And that she saw Jordie Chandler being kissed on the cheek and then on the mouth and then with his hand on his crotch. She also filed a lawsuit against Michael Jackson. She was part of that one at a subsequent time. She lost that lawsuit. She's the only one who did not seek bankruptcy protection, and as a consequence, Michael Jackson has in the past garnished her salary. She comes here and she testified ten years later, says the same thing. She's not going to get anything from this. She's not going to get a story sold, none of that. The only risk she runs is that her salary could still be garnished at some time in the future. Blanca Francia testified. She testified that she saw Wade Robson in the shower with Michael Jackson. His underwear was on the floor of the room. He was about eight years old. She saw Wade and -- Wade and Macaulay spending days on end in Michael Jackson's bedroom. Phillip LeMarque testified. And Phillip LeMarque testified that they delivered french fries to the arcade, and while he was in there, he saw Michael Jackson holding up Macaulay Culkin. He saw his hand going underneath his shorts. And he saw his hand in the region of his crotch. Phillip LeMarque's testimony directly corroborates both Jason Francia, and it directly corroborates as well Gavin Arvizo. Now, what other corroboration do we have of the testimony of Jason Francia? Could I have the pictures of the magazines? There was a collection of material that was shown to you during the course of this trial. And, frankly, it took quite some time to show it to you, and I want to go through some of this material right now. This book up here, entitled, “Man, A Sexual Study of Man”, was found inside Mr. Jackson's bedroom. We had last night thought about presenting some of the photographs inside this book. And we decided -- and understand, as you've seen in the course of this trial, we're not squeamish about showing photographs. We've done that. We could not find a photograph inside this manual that we felt could be projected on this wall. This is a detailed study of what two men are able to do to one another sexually. The two men are depicted in numerous photographs. The photographs are divided in three categories. A series of photographs of two men masturbating one another, the second category of two men performing oral sex on one another, and then the final chapter is two men performing acts of sodomy or anal sex on one another. The pictures are absolutely graphic. This is not a publication that you're going to find on anybody's coffee -- anybody's coffee table. This is a publication that Michael Jackson had in his possession because it excites him. The content of this publication is sexual. And it is sexually exciting for him to have. That is the only reason somebody would have this type of publication. This is not appreciation of the content for its photographic sake. It is not appreciation of the content for its artistic sake. There is no artistic sake to it. It's graphic depictions of two men performing sex acts on them. You need to look at that book. You need to look at the content of that book. This is not possessed by him for any reason other than the fact that he finds sexual excitement in looking at them. And then you have to ask yourself, are you comfortable with a middle-aged man getting into bed with a 13-year-old boy as he possesses material like this that is, for him, sexually exciting? That's the question you have to deal with. “The Boy, A Photographic Essay”. This book was seized from Michael Jackson's possession in 1993. It is filled with photographs very much like this. “Boys Will Be Boys” is the other publication. It is filled with photographs just like this. All of the photographs in this publication are very much like this. Now, I will suggest again that there may be people who possess these because they find the photographs to be artistic. That's possible. But let me suggest to you that Michael Jackson possessed this book in 1993, at a time that he was sharing his bed, for months at a time, with one child after another. A succession of young boys going into his room for days and weeks and months at a time and sharing his bed in the most intimate manner possible. This was the kind of material that he had in his room at the time. He possessed this because it was sexually exciting for him, not because he thought that there was something good about the quality of the photography or because he considered that to be art. This is a book called “Cronos” that was found in his room as well. That is a description or an example of the photography in that book. Now, in his bedroom, when we went in there and we started opening drawers conducting our search, is a drawer that contains, as -- just as you open the drawer, that is the magazine that you see that's in there. In that drawer, the testimony to you was also found photographs of the Arvizo children. That picture of the Arvizo children, with Davellin in her uniform as an LAPD cadet and the other two boys, was found in that drawer at that time. This was found in a box at the foot of the bed. Just like that. I mean, it may have been closed, but all you have to do is open it up. Remember the open-door policy that Mr. Culkin talked about? Anybody could walk in there. His children walk in there. The people -- the staff who walk in there and clean his room. It had to be the case that every single person who works at Neverland understands that he collects material like this. This is his bathroom on the first floor. Look at the -- I didn't lose it. I didn't lose it. It's here. Right down here, that is a suitcase. Right there is the black suitcase. This is in his bathroom on the first floor. Anybody can walk into that bathroom at that time. Inside that suitcase was a number of different documents, including these magazines. Also, there was a contract that you received in evidence, a contract, I believe it was the Neverland Valley Entertainment -- no, no. I don't remember which one. There's a contract that was in that suitcase at the time. This is some magazines that was found on the first floor near the bathroom. Go ahead. This was found in the bathroom, simply sitting up on the counter, “Pimp Up, Ho's Down”, and then copies of “Barely Legal”. Go ahead to the next one. Guess what this is? This is the suitcase that Gavin told you about. This is the suitcase, or the briefcase that Gavin told law enforcement about. And Star as well. Both of them said that there were magazines in there. They described some of the magazines. Some have been added to since then, some have been taken away. It is from this collection of magazines, from this collection, that we found all of the fingerprints. Go ahead to the next one. These are figurines that are found in his office. This is the office in the separate building that's connected by a breezeway. You walk in there, and they are on the desk. Again, his open-door policy. Anybody in that ranch walks in there and sees this stuff, including his own children. He is simply not inhibited about hiding what he finds to be interesting sexually. Everybody on the ranch knows what's in there. His own witness, Maria, who testified, the maid, says she has seen the magazines. Go on to the next one. That's another one of the figurines. Next. This is inside the cabinet in the bathroom to the office. You just open the door, and that's what you see. Another copy of “Barely Legal”. I'm going to be talking about that publication in a moment. Next. Here is another drawer in the bathroom to the office. You just open the door, a bottle of Vaseline on the left and another pornographic magazine on the right. Go ahead to the next one. All right. Now, the fingerprints that we presented over a great deal of time, I'm going resolve this in less than one minute - all right? - because you already heard days and days of that. This is a collection of the magazines for which the fingerprints were found. You were exposed to hours of cross-examination of each of these witnesses as they talked about a fingerprint that was misidentified in Spain, okay? Or in Oregon, or in Philadelphia, or something like that. But the bottom line is that there were no experts who were presented by the defense to say that what we believed to be fingerprints of Star or Gavin were, in fact, mistakes. They didn't do that. And these prints were given to them to analyze separately. So the bottom line is that these are their fingerprints. And by not producing evidence to the contrary is an acknowledgement that these are their fingerprints. As to Star in the green, there were fingerprints on one magazine called “Finally Legal”. Look at the topics of these things. As to Gavin there are fingerprints on a title “Barely Legal - Hardcore”. And then there was another magazine, “Visions of Fantasy”, and another one's “Al Goldsteins 100 Best Adult Videos”. One of those magazines actually went to the grand jury, and it was that one. Remember Mr. Sanger asking Paul Zelis on the witness stand, “Detective Zelis, isn't it true all of these magazines were handed to the boys during the grand jury?” And the answer is, “No”. Of all the magazines that we found fingerprints on, only one of them actually went to the grand jury. All the rest of them were in the possession of Charlene Marie, who testified. Charlene Marie is the criminalist from the Department of Justice, and all of those magazines during the period of the grand jury hearings were, in fact, in her possession. This is the mannequin that Janet testified to. The mannequin that -- not “Janet testified”. I'm sorry, that Gavin and Star testified that the defendant simulated a sex act against them at that time. Let me take a moment to talk to you -- let me take a moment to talk to you about the sexually explicit material that was in his home. It was probably in three categories of material. There were the two books, and others, that depict nude children. There was the collection of material that was homoerotic. Some of it extraordinarily graphic. There are about five or six publications that he had that contain homoerotic material. Some just photographs and some depicting sex acts in the extreme. And it's whatever two people, two men, can do to one another. Then there was a collection of heterosexual material, mostly in the form of magazines. The greatest collection of that material had titles like “Just Legal” or “Barely Legal”. They are magazines that are selected -- for whom models are selected because they are presumably 18 years old, but frankly look 14. Okay? And for all we know, they're 14 pretending to be 18 pretending to be 14, because there's no way of knowing what their true age is. Identification is easy to get ahold of. Why is he in possession of all of those magazines? Because he has 13-year-old boys in his room and 13-year-old boys who look at those magazines, and it's not an accident that that's where the fingerprints come up. It's not an accident. They did not go through his drawers and find it in that room. It's not an accident that that happened. They're going through that material because he's showing them that material, and the selection of those particular magazines are designed to appeal to a 13-year-old boy, who is exactly at that stage in his life, and looking through those pictures, he sees images of -- what he sees are like girls that he knows and goes to school with. He's 13 years old, and these models are selected because, frankly, they look that age, or 14, or 15, but girls that he would be familiar with. That is sexually exciting to a child and that reduces his inhibitions. Why would he possess all of this material? Why would a man who has an interest in homoerotic material also have an interest in this kind of heterosexual material? And my answer to that question is, it's not for him. It's for the children who come into his room. The third area of corroboration that we're dealing with is the alcohol. There was a great deal of alcohol that was being poured at Neverland. He was drinking a lot of it, and the kids were drinking a lot of it. And we know it's true. Michael Jackson has a drinking problem. There's no other explanation to it. Jesus Salas described him as being intoxicated many nights a week. Not drinking many nights a week, intoxicated many nights a week. That corroborated the boys when they said he was intoxicated on a regular basis as well. Let's go to the jury instructions, if we can. We found bottles of alcohol in his room. There's no question but that he was drinking. We even have the testimony of his cousin, Rijo Jackson, who said that while the boys were in his room, a bottle of wine was delivered to his room. I'm going to go through some of the instructions fairly rapidly and we're going to move on quickly. He's charged with four counts of lewd act with a child. That's Counts 2, 3, 4 and 5. Counts 2 and 3 deal with acts of molestation as described by Gavin Arvizo. Counts 4 and 5 deal with the acts of molestation as described by Star Arvizo. Go ahead. A lewd act with a child is -- there are three elements to this offense. We have to establish that a person touched the body of a child, a child was under 14 at the time; that the touching was done with the specific intent to arouse, appeal to, or gratify the lust, passions or sexual desires of either the person or the child. If there's any kind of touching of a child, it doesn't matter whether it's skin to skin, or skin on clothing, or otherwise. Any touching of a child under the age of 14 that is done because of the sexual interest, it's done because he finds it sexually satisfying to do, or he wants it to be sexually satisfying to the child, that is an act of child molestation as defined under 288(a), which is the offense that we deal with. Four counts. Two counts separately as described by Gavin; two counts separately as described. On Count 6, Count 6 was an attempt of child molest. That was described by Gavin, and that was the incident where Michael Jackson took his hand and brought his hand toward his crotch intending him to fondle Michael Jackson. Gavin was not ready to do that. The grooming process had not yet extended far enough. He pulled his hand away. It's charged as an attempt, but that's that count. Attempt is a specific intent to commit the crime, and a direct but ineffectual act toward its commission. In other words, he took an act toward doing it, and he intended to do it at the time. That satisfies that crime. The final four counts deal with administration of an intoxicant to aid the commission of a felony. This is the final four counts, and each one reflects a correspondence with each of the child molestation counts. That the accused administered an intoxicating agent to another person. He did that every night while they were there. And, two, the accused administered the intoxicating agent with the specific comment to thereby enable or assist him in committing a lewd act with the child. Conspiracy. Move through this. This conspiracy began as they were in Florida. This conspiracy began when they decided that they needed to get into the mind of Janet Arvizo that she was in danger. A conspiracy is an agreement to commit a crime, a specific intent to commit the crime, a specific intent to commit that crime, the specific intent to commit an overt act in furtherance of that crime, all right? The agreement may be unspoken, and the agreement may be inferred from the circumstances. Now, what does this mean? Three men get together and decide that they're going to rob a liquor store. One goes out and buys a gun, one goes out and gases up the car, one goes out and selects which liquor store. All three of those acts are in furtherance of that conspiracy. The three men get together and they specifically say they're going to do that. You now have a crime of conspiracy to rob a liquor store. Does it matter that they did not rob the liquor store? No, not in the least. Conspiracy is what they call an inchoate crime, an incomplete crime. The crime is sufficient -- There is something flying around. I'm not just doing that. The crime is sufficient when they get into the agreement that they're going to do it and one of them takes one step in furtherance of the commission of that crime. They are charged with conspiracy in this case. There were overt acts - go ahead - “A step or act committed by one or more of the co-conspirators which goes beyond mere planning or agreement to commit a crime and which step or act is done in furtherance of the accomplishment of the object of the conspiracy”. In other words, when the -- of the three men, the one who goes out and buys a gun, which is legal to do; one goes out and gases up the car, that's legal to do; but it is the step in furtherance of the conspiracy. All you need is one. In this case, there are 28 overt acts that are alleged in this conspiracy. Go on. “Overt act need not be criminal or unlawful”. Go ahead. It is, in this case, a conspiracy to commit any of three different crimes, and all you need to do is find one of them. Any of three different crimes that they agreed to do. One is child abduction. In other words, the separation of Janet Arvizo from her children. Go ahead. “A person took, enticed away, kept or withheld, or concealed a child”. “No right of custody”. “Malicious”, which means bad. That's all that means. And No. 4, “A specific intent to detain or conceal the child from the lawful custodian”. This was what happened. And this actually -- remember, I said the crime doesn't have to be completed at all? It's simply that they intend to do it. This crime was completed when they told her she could leave Neverland, but her children are not leaving, and she was so scared that she felt the need to leave. This crime was actually committed at that time. Go to the next one. Definition of “keeps” or “withholds”. “Retains physical possession whether or not the child resists or objects”. In other words, these kids were happy to be at Neverland. That's not -- it's a question of whether the mother has the right to have these children. “To entice”, the -- the definition of that is, “To allure, to attract, to draw, or to lead away by exciting hope or desire”. In other words, draws these kids away with the promise that there was something fun to do, but separating the kids from the mother. It does not necessarily include any domination. “Detain” means to delay, to hinder, or to retard. It does not necessarily include force or menace”. The second crime that we're dealing with here is false imprisonment. Now, there was a lot of cross-examination of witnesses by Mr. Mesereau and even Mr. Sanger, where they asked such questions of, “Well, did you hear any screaming? Did you hear anybody calling for help? As they walked from the car, did you hear anybody calling for help? As they walked from the car, did you hear anybody calling for help? As they went in the building, did you hear anybody calling for help?” That demonstrates a complete lack of understanding of what this case is all about, and this crime. Nobody was falsely imprisoned, but there was the allegation that they conspired to do so; that they wanted that. They wanted to keep this family at Neverland, and they wanted to take them to Brazil. Now, the question is, did a number of people get together and decide that they were going to tell Janet that her life was in danger, and her children's lives were in danger, and they used that as a means to isolate her and keep her from moving about at will? Whether or not it actually happened, we went through hours - hours - of cross-examination about all the opportunities she had to run away. That has nothing to do with this case. The ultimate was when we had that -- the orthodontist on the witness stand giving testimony with a road map of Solvang, talking about all the different escape routes out of Solvang, and all the questions about, “Did you hear any screaming out of the office? Did you hear any yelling for help in the orth” -- as if Janet Arvizo is going to leave her kids in the orthodontist seat with braces on and run through the streets of Solvang screaming. It simply has nothing to do with this case. The question is, did a number of people get together and decide that they were going to frighten her into believing that her children were in danger for the purpose of keeping them isolated at Neverland? That is false imprisonment. It is the intent to commit that crime. Whether it actually happened or not is completely irrelevant. “False imprisonment. Intentional or unlawfully confined or detained another”. By the time we got to that stage of talking about whether the locks were on the inside of the door of the orthodontist office or on the outside of the door of the orthodontist office, I was ready to come screaming from the courtroom at that point. Number two, that there was no consent in false imprisonment. That somebody was simply taken -- was required to stay at a particular location. Number three, “Accomplished by force or threats that are either express or implied”. These were express threats. They told her her children were in danger of dying; that there were killers out there. And that has been corroborated by that tape that we recovered from Brad Miller's office. Go ahead. Extortion. This deals with taking from her a value, and it was under threat or fear. Go ahead. “A person obtained tangible or intangible property or other thing of value from a victim”. Go ahead. “With consent. Consent induced by wrongful use of fear”. Fear. “Specific intent to wrongfully use fear to induce victim to give up their property”. What constitutes fear? Go ahead. Definition of “property” in this case. What are we talking about? The use of fear to have them give up their own likeness, which in this case was a very valuable object. Everybody who testified in this case as to what went on in the early morning hours of the 20th of February for this video acknowledged that this was done for profit. That video was worth millions of dollars to somebody. But it was taken from the people who actually were entitled to it. And that was the Arvizo family, and that was done by means of fear. The threat that there were people who would harm her and her children if they didn't do this particular project, that is extortion. In this particular case it was a crime that was actually accomplished. They certainly intended to do it, but in this case it was actually accomplished. Go on to the next. All right. I'd like to show you a couple of documents very quickly. This is an interesting one. Go ahead and expand the sentence on here. This is a letter that had been e-mailed, and I believe it was Marc Schaffel to one of the Germans, but look at this statement that's on this letter: “There's a possibility of a second show for the 25th or 26th for the same amount or more. As always, again, in my first plan, this would include Gavin and his mother, as well as a Michael Jackson interview”. Go to the next page. The next page is an accounting of the amount of money that was going to come from this production and that amount of money came to about $3.2 million. They were planning on using this production in a very profitable way. They were planning on using Gavin and his mother, Janet Arvizo, for their profit. They had no intention on giving them a penny. Go to the next, please. No.
Mr. Auchincloss: Sorry.
Mr. Zonen: This is an exhibit of a document that was signed by Janet Arvizo on the 7th of February. This was while they were in Florida. That top line, as she said, it was a blank piece of paper when she signed it. When you take a look at this document, that makes sense. The writing is typed in, it's well above the signature. It's certainly consistent with the fact that she signed a document that had no paper (sic) on it. If you look at the writing below it, “Mrs. Arvizo also learned that Davellin and Star may have been on T.V. without their consent. Please send it back accordingly”. Do you know what this document does? This document gives Michael Jackson the authority to include Janet Arvizo in his lawsuit in England to take “Living with Michael Jackson” off the air, because she's the one with standing to do it. She's the one who has children for whom she did not give consent for them to be on it. Michael Jackson needs Janet Arvizo's signature to effectively pursue that litigation. Not the other way around. This is a fraudulent document. The signature on the bottom was transposed. In other words, a copy of her signature was made from another document, it was pasted on, and then a Xerox was made, and then somebody wrote -- and, look, it's in the third person. And in that bottom paragraph, “Miss Arvizo also learned”, whereas in the top paragraph, it's “I confirm”, first person. This is a fraudulent document, and it was used to be able to effect her inclusion in this lawsuit in England. And even David LeGrand on the witness stand has so acknowledged. Go ahead. This is a document containing the expenditures of money. Can we see this? Can we blow it up? Go ahead. This is incoming money from Fox Studios on the 13th. This is an advance on what this production was going to be, $750,000. On the 20th, the day before the production, it was 750,000. We're up to 1.5 million. On the next one, an incoming wire, this is the day after the production, of 1.5 million. They're now up to three million. Go ahead. And finally, Alfred Haber, this deals with the incoming money from overseas, another half million, and another half million five days later. Four million dollars they got on the production of the “Take 2”, the one that Michael Jackson was going to include the production of the Arvizos as well, but frankly, he couldn't get it done in time because she refused to go back to Neverland. Go ahead. “Hale Lane” means that there was -- this is the money to David LeGrand. He gets $80,000. Go ahead. This is for Neverland Valley Entertainment. That means Marc Schaffel. He gets $150,000 for his involvement. Joe Marcus gets $35,000. He's the ranch manager. And this is on the 14th. This is before. You know, and this goes into his account. Joe Marcus is the one who put the notations, “Do not let Gavin leave the property”. Remember that? On the 19th? Remember what they said about that? “Well, do not let Gavin leave the property was because he drives an SUV”. That's nonsense. That notation went on one-half hour after Hamid Moslehi arrived to do that video. They wanted to make sure that family was there to do that video. Go to the next one. Neverland Valley Ranch. That's Michael Jackson. $60,000. Go ahead. Geragos & Geragos. Look at this. On the 14th, Geragos & Geragos. Mark Geragos worked for him for seven days and got $70,000. It's not over yet. Go ahead. Hale Lane, that's -- again, that's the attorney, LeGrand, $40,000. Ken Finkelstein is the attorney in New York, represents Michael Jackson. He's managing the money. This is the account from Fire Mountain. This is the money that came into that account that had been created, a corporate structure that had been created to be able to deal with the money that came from the production of “Take 2”. Ken Finkelstein is an attorney representing Michael Jackson. With Michael Jackson's knowledge and approval, two million dollars goes to him for his management on behalf of Michael Jackson of that production. Go to the next one. Hale Lane, another $30,000. Go ahead. Allan Whitman is his accountant, $150,000. That's what goes to pay the creditors. That's it. He owes ten million dollars to his creditors. That's what goes for that. Go ahead. Another document in here. This is the demonstration of the money, of the two million dollars that went to Finkelstein in New York. Another $41,000 to Geragos & Geragos. At this point we're up to $110,000. Another $70,000 to Geragos & Geragos. This is now $180,000 to Mark Geragos. This is all within the first three weeks of his representation of Michael Jackson. Do you remember his testimony here? Do you remember when I asked him how many conversations he had with Michael Jackson? One that he had, on the first day he was there, he does not remember the content of that conversation. Remember that? When I asked him about conversations with anybody else, he had no recollection of any of them. Conversations with Marc Schaffel, conversations with Dieter or conversations with Ronald Konitzer, conversations with Cascio. None of them did he remember, none of them did he take notes on, none of them did he keep notes on, none of them he could say in court. He got $180,000 in his first three weeks of representation of Michael Jackson and can't sit up here and represent to you one single conversation he had and adamantly denies that he ever had a conversation with Michael Jackson. Adamantly denied that he ever knew that this family was staying at Neverland. Adequately denied that he knew anything about a trip to Brazil. Adamantly denied that he knew anything about passports. Mark Geragos, who stood up here and testified, “I” -- anything about ever being told by an attorney representing Janet Arvizo, that there was a demand for her passport, her birth certificate, original certified copies, and visas to New York. She had an absolute right to be concerned about them being in possession of her passport. An absolute right. And Dickerman had an absolute right to demand it. And he sent six letters to Mark Geragos, and we presented them. And every one of those letters we corroborated and confirmed that they had been -- the first one delivered, hand-delivered to Mark Geragos, and five additional letters sent by fax, and we provided the proof that the facsimile had been delivered. In all six of those letters he makes a demand that the passports be returned. Mark Geragos says, “I knew nothing of the passports. I knew nothing of the visas. I knew nothing of the trip to Brazil. I had no conversation with Michael Jackson, certainly not that I recall. I took no notes of anything. I don't remember anything of any conversation with anybody else. All I knew was that Janet Arvizo was trouble, and I said, 'You need to do something about that'”. I said to him, “Well, when did you first learn that they were living there for the better part of five weeks, that these children were staying in his room, that these children were about the last of a succession of boys who had been living in his room, sharing his room and in fact sharing his bed?” And his answer, “I knew nothing about that”. Even the production of “Living with Michael Jackson”, the reason that he had been retained, that production itself he said he didn't watch for weeks and had never read the transcript. Did not know about the content of the phone conversation that was recorded by Brad Miller. Had never seen that transcript either. What exactly was he paid $180,000 for over a three-week period? Because if you believe him in his testimony, he is both the most incompetent lawyer who ever occurred and the most uninformed. And that is not Mark Geragos. That's not his reputation. And that means when he testified that he did not know anything about those passports, even though they were in his vault, and had been in his vault for over a year, in a law office that had a protocol set up to be able to deal with evidence being deposited into that vault, “I didn't know it was there. I didn't know who got it. I didn't know who put it in there. Nobody signed for it. It just happened to be there”. This is the case of The People versus Michael Jackson. This isn't the case of John Doe being charged with drunk driving. This is the case of People versus Michael Jackson. There is nobody who is going to be able to convince you that when four passports, four birth certificates and four visas are delivered to Mark Geragos' office involving who? The victim in this case and his mother, his brother and his sister, that he did not know about that. Go ahead to the next one. $180,000. Mark Geragos' testimony before you was simply not true. Now, why was Mark Geragos testifying there? He was there to testify that his investigator, Brad Miller, told him that Janet Arvizo asked for money. You have to simply not believe that. Because Brad Miller, one thing he's capable of doing is running a telephone wire and running a tape-recorder. And if, in fact, she had ever asked him for money, we would have a tape of that. They never even put Brad Miller on the witness stand. And you have to disbelieve Mark Geragos when he says, “That's what Brad Miller told me”. And that is the only testimony that came in, three months of trial, that actually has somebody saying Janet Arvizo asked Michael Jackson for money. Nobody else has said that at any time. This is a document that was sent to Yolanda and Raymond Trujillo. They were the landlords of the Soto Street address. That document right there. The reason I'm showing it to you is, I want you to look at that signature. Go to the next one. Again, to Yolanda and Raymond Trujillo. This is about moving them out of that apartment. Mr. Geragos said, “We paid for it because they wanted to keep tabs on her”. The answer to that is no, they didn't. They moved them out of that apartment because they wanted to ship them off to Brazil and Mr. Geragos was part of that plan. Again, look at the signature over “Janet Arvizo”. Now go to the next one. The two top are the two signatures you just looked at. The bottom one is actually her signature. She never signed those authorizations to have her property moved out of that apartment. Those are forgeries. Just like that document on the 7th of February that was done in Florida that included her in that civil suit. Go to the next one. This is a document, and as we blow up the portion in here that I want you to see, it shows Janet Arvizo at 11520 Trent. The “N” is obscured in this photograph, but you can actually see it in the document which is in evidence. 11520 Trent Avenue, Trent Court in Calabasas, is an address that does not exist. Does not exist. Go to the next one. All right. Before I get to that, let me talk a little bit more about what was going on in terms of Mark Geragos, Brad Miller and all of the others.
The Court: Counsel? Since you shifted, it's time for a break.
Mr. Zonen: Okay. We'll do that.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Zonen: Thank you. They were erasing this family. Remember that movie that came out a few years ago starring our Governor? They were erasing this family. It began with that note that you just saw, the Trent Court address that doesn't exist as the address that they used for the purchase of the tickets to Brazil. A one-way ticket was the testimony of what they wanted to do. Ultimately bought a round-trip, because that's the only way they could do it and get into Brazil was to show that you have a ticket to get back out of the country, but that wasn't one that they had to use. They had no intention of bringing this family back from Brazil at any time soon. The furnishings that were taken out of the apartment were taken to an unknown location. Nobody knew where it was. And it took Mr. Dickerman two and a half months in order to get a response of where this property was. The property was put into the vault at this storage facility and it was put in the name of Brad Miller. Nobody else's name was on it. There was no way to trace that stuff to them. There was no information that was given that reflected accurate information about where the family was going. Vinnie checked the kids out of John Burroughs Middle School. All debts were paid to John Burroughs Middle School with regard to the, excuse me, debts on the books. Whatever books weren't returned, they were paid. At John Burroughs Middle School, they were told the kids were going to be going to Phoenix. They obviously weren't going to Phoenix. On the applications for the passports, they said that the family was going to be going to France and Italy. They obviously were not going to France or Italy. And finally, they got visas through the Brazilian embassy to go, in fact, to Brazil. Janet Arvizo told you that that decision was made to go to Brazil after they realized that any other country in South America would be a country where she would be able to speak the language, but couldn't do so in Brazil. The family literally was being erased. There was no evidence where they were going to. There was no evidence of where they had been, the apartment being closed out, all debts having been paid. They were simply going to disappear in Brazil. Now, why? Why were they doing that? Why was the surveillance going on? Why did the surveillance continue to go on even days after they had left? And I think the answer to that, I want you to think about two things. When we showed you the surveillance tapes that we seized from Brad Miller's office, and again there's no reason to believe that was the sum total of them, because they were simply snippets of surveillances. They obviously did hours and hours and hours over a long period of time. Something had to justify $180,000 worth of billable hours in three weeks, so it was obviously more than seven minutes of surveillance. But one of them was particular -- two of them were particularly telling. The first one was the surveillance camera from a car that was directly behind that Range Rover that had the Department of Social Services workers in it as they were having a conversation with Janet. This was the day after, the day after her interview with the DCFS at Jay Jackson's apartment. And it was being filmed as she talked with them through the window of the Range Rover, exactly as she had said. Janet Arvizo had no way of knowing that, months later, we would do a search of Brad Miller's office and find a surveillance tape, but she kept telling everybody, “They're following us. They're filming us”. And she told you that accordingly. That film is corroboration of the fact that that happened. That film actually captures Vinnie running up to the car at some point as they left and her walking with Vinnie. They're literally surveilling Janet while she's with Vinnie. And he knows it. They're still following behind and they're taking pictures. And yet we're supposed to believe she's nuts when she says they follow with a camera crew and take pictures. They do. And we seized some evidence of that. But the other one that's the most telltale of all of the surveillance was the one that was done I believe on the 22nd of March. You can see it again, if you wish. It was the one in El Monte at the home of the Venturas, David and Maria Ventura. And it was while Davellin was walking home from school. And she had her book bag on her back. And what's telling about this is, she knew she was being followed and they knew that she was watching and that she knew. They knew she knew. She knew they knew. She was scared to death. She looks back. She sees this car. She runs to her parents' backyard, closes the gate behind her, and once again looks back, and you can see that. And you can see the expression on her face. And they continue to film. They don't drive away. They don't engage in any kind of evasive behavior. They wanted her to know that she was being followed. They wanted her to be scared. They wanted this family to understand that there was still a threat to them. They wanted this family still back at Neverland. If you would, please. There was a note that was left on Maria and David Ventura's house. That note is this one right here. The note that was left and the testimony that they had, it was this person Johnny, whose, frankly, level of education is comparable to the photograph that he took. Johnny misspells “Vinnie” in here. But think about this for a second: This is ten days after they had left Neverland. And you have this adult man misbehaving, throwing stones at the house, who leaves a note to a 13-year-old boy and to a 12-year-old boy to, “Please call Frank or Vinnie” That, I'm assuming, should be “Vinnie”, V-i-e-n-n-y, at -- and that's the number. And that's of course in -- up in Santa Barbara County. That's at Neverland. Now, they add -- and on the other side it says, “To Star or Gavin”. Now, imagine that you're the parent for a moment and some man is throwing stones at the house and leaving a note on the door to your children to call for an emergency. There was a real concerted effort to get this family back to Neverland. Why? Why would they do that? Why can't they just leave this family alone? And the answer to that is that they were profitable to them, and they were a potential liability against them. If they were out wandering about and doing what they wanted to do, there was always the possibility that at some point in time this family would end up on a television station, of some other station, talking about all the pornography and all the drinking, all the problems that is Neverland. That was their fear. There was a second fear that they had. And let me suggest to you that that fear was even more paramount. Aside from the fact that they were exploiting this family for just simply money, the very thing that Mr. Mesereau tells you was the motivation for Janet Arvizo, in fact was their motivation all along. This family was profitable. The press wanted to know all about them, who they were. Frankly, they wanted to know who Michael Jackson's new boyfriend was, the truth being very simple in this regard. This family was profitable. And they wanted to capitalize off that profit, not allow them to do so. But I think another issue that you need to take into consideration is this: All of the sexually explicit material that we showed you during the course of this trial, and during this closing argument, was found in a number of different locations in Neverland. It was in the bathroom, it was in the office, it was in the cabinets, it was out of the cabinets, it was on the counters. It was readily visible and a lot of people knew about it. The maids, certainly, who cleaned, they knew about it. The kids who were around there, they knew about it. The staff, they knew about it. The person who bought this material for Mr. Jackson, they knew about it. They all knew about the drinking. They all knew that Michael Jackson drinks entirely too much and achieves levels of intoxication on a regular basis. They also knew that Gavin was not the first of a succession of young boys who have disappeared into his room for long periods of time. Not just hours, but days, weeks, and even months. Everybody understood what was going on at Neverland, and for anybody to say otherwise is simply not being honest. They understood. And the realization, particularly from Frank, who was there back in the year 2000, at the time the sexually explicit materials and images were shown to these boys, who were then only nine or ten years old, he particularly understands. And that's why, when you look at those phone record charts, you realize that he is the center of attention. There is the very real fear that at some point in time, a Sergeant Steve Robel, or a Detective Craig Bonner, or a Lieutenant Jeff Klapakis, or a Detective Vic Alvarez is going to show up at that door with a search warrant, because they know what's going on at Neverland. And that effort to isolate this family, not just from the public and not just from the press, but from the police, was one of the incentives to get this family into Brazil where they might stay for any length, period of time. Among the documentation that you have in evidence is documentation that came back and forth between Marc Schaffel and others that refer to this “vacation” that they were going to be taking. And in a number of those documents, whenever you see the word “vacation for Janet and boys”, “vacation” is in quotes, which of course means it's anything but a vacation. The incentive in this case by Michael Jackson and all of his employees was, first of all, to exploit this family financially so that he might be able to salvage a second career financially and bring some much needed funds into that business enterprise, and secondly, to salvage his career. And that was done at the expense of this family. It is also the case that Gavin Arvizo, demonstrating remarkable courage in coming into this courtroom, gave testimony to you about a series of events that took place in Michael Jackson's bedroom when Michael Jackson, not for the first time, took sexual liberties with a 13-year-old boy. That information and testimony is entirely credible, entirely accurate, and entirely truthful. It should be believed, and Michael Jackson should be held responsible for what he did. Thank you.
The Court: All right. Thank you, Counsel. Mr. Mesereau?
Mr. Mesereau: We need some time to set up, if we may, Your Honor.
The Court: You may.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you. Miss Yu went upstairs. I have to find her. She's doing computer type of things. May I just --
The Court: Yes.
Mr. Mesereau: Okay. Thank you. (Discussion off the record.)
Ms. Yu: I'm having some computer problems. I'm sorry, Your Honor.
The Court: It's okay.
Mr. Mesereau: Still having a computer problem.
The Court: Take your time.
Mr. Mesereau: Thanks. It may take five or ten minutes. Something happened to the computer. Apologize.
The Court: That's okay.
The Bailiff: Judge, I.T. is on their way, too.
Mr. Mesereau: We're going to be just a couple of minutes. Thanks. I think we're almost there, Your Honor.
Ms. Yu: I'm sorry.
The Court: (To the jury) I should tell you, everything was tested yesterday and it all worked. So it's not that this is the first time they're trying to do this.
The Bailiff: This computer gremlin came and....
Mr. Mesereau: I think we're ready, Your Honor.
The Court: All right, Counsel.
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Like in the age of computers, right? Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, I'd like to begin my closing argument by thanking each and every one of you on behalf of Michael Jackson, his family, and everyone at the defense table for all the time you've spent on this case. It's been a long trial. You've spent many months. You spent a lot of time looking at some testimony that was interesting and some that was not, some that was dull and some that was exciting, but you've had to work very, very hard, and we all appreciate it very much. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I just heard a prosecutor get up, start his closing argument with an attack on me. And whenever a prosecutor does that, you know they're in trouble. Now, I can look at you and say, “Mr. Sneddon said that Debbie Rowe would testify that the outtakes were scripted”. She did not. She said the opposite. I can tell you that Mr. Sneddon said that Chris Carter would testify to acts at Neverland. He never showed up. I can tell you that Christian Robinson was supposed to come for the prosecution and say things were scripted. He did not. We called him. He said they were not scripted. That's not the point. This is not a popularity contest between lawyers. The issue in this case is the life, the future, the freedom and the reputation of Michael Jackson. That's what's about to be placed in your hands. And the question you have before you is very simple. Do you believe the Arvizos beyond a reasonable doubt, or not? If you don't, Mr. Jackson must go free. I submit, based upon the testimony you've heard, the witnesses you've seen, the issues you've seen addressed, there is no way in the world you can find that the Arvizos are trustworthy beyond a reasonable doubt. And if you can't do that, if anything they said to you, if anything they presented to you causes you to pause and wonder or suspect what really happened, Mr. Jackson must be acquitted under our legal system. You have heard so much testimony about the scams of Mrs. Arvizo. The prosecutor gets up and tries to prop her up, justify her actions, explain her as a nice person, tell you you can trust her, tell you everyone should trust her. And he especially looks at you in the eye and says, “She never asked for money”. Well, I have some questions for the jury. When she took her children to The Laugh Factory, placed them on stage, had them do skits and plays about their poverty, about how poor they were, about the part of town they came from in front of George Lopez; when she told George Lopez a story about how her children used to dive for coins in a fountain; when the fund-raisers took place and money was raised, and Janet Arvizo called George Lopez and wanted to give him a gift to thank him, was she asking for money? When Janet Arvizo and Davellin kept hounding Chris Tucker, “When are we getting the truck? When are we getting the truck? When are we getting the truck?” was she asking for money? When Janet Arvizo went to Miss Kennedy, who owned the dance class and said, “You know, we settled the J.C. Penney case. We got some money out of it, but all we ended up with were two bicycles. Please continue to give my children free lessons”, was she asking for money? When Janet Arvizo concocted the J.C. Penney fraud, when her lawyer was shocked, after 25 meetings with her, to hear her say at a deposition how she'd been fondled 25 times by J.C. Penney security guards, was she asking for money? When Janet Arvizo had her children call celebrities, constantly hounding celebrities, trying to get money, with her in the background scripting them and coaching them, do you think she was asking for money? When Janet Arvizo went to the editor of the local newspaper in El Monte and said, “We have no insurance. Chemotherapy costs $12,000 per injection. Please put the bank account number in your article. Please do an article. I know it's against your policy to do things like this, but please do it for us, because we can't pay our medical bills”, was she asking anyone for money? When the calls went to Jay Leno, repeated messages, “You're my favorite comedian”, messages he thought were awfully effusive, sounded scripted, sounded contrived, didn't sound like the appropriate message from a child of that age, when he called the hospital and a woman was in the background telling her son to be effusive, to be wordy, to continue to tell him, “You're my favorite comedian”, when he thought they might be asking for money but they actually didn't, what was Janet Arvizo doing? Ask yourself, “Do I have any problem believing what Janet Arvizo says?” Because if you have the slightest problem that's a reasonable one, the slightest doubt that's a reasonable one, the slightest suspicion, Mr. Jackson must go home and he must be free. Now, the list of people she hustled is endless. You know that ten days after the J.C. Penney settlement -- the prosecutor wants you to think she just got $32,000. The fact of the matter is, she put 25,000 in an account for Gavin, she put 8,000 in an account for Star, and she set that up so that she can't touch it, which I commend her for. She got much more than $32,000, and yes, she had to pay legal fees and costs, and that's what you normally do when you file a lawsuit and take it to settlement. But when she filed for emergency welfare ten days after getting that money, was she asking for money? In the J.C. Penney case, in her deposition when she admitted that she had filed a state disability claim because she was depressed, and when she was asked, “Why are you depressed?” she said, “Because I'm a nobody”, was Janet Arvizo asking for money? When she fraudulently sought food stamps, when she fraudulently sought disability, when she fraudulently sought every state benefit she could get her hands on by perjuring herself and perjuring herself and perjuring herself through constant welfare applications, where she disguised settlements, disguised bank accounts, disguised benefits, was Janet Arvizo seeking money? Because if you think she was, the prosecution falls. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the issue is very, very simple. If you do not believe the Arvizos beyond a reasonable doubt, Michael Jackson must be acquitted. That's the law. And these claims are completely based upon your having to believe the Arvizos every which way but Sunday. You've got to believe them. Now, I submit that the witnesses we have called and the cross-examination we have elicited in this case proves the Arvizos are con artists, actors and liars. What do I mean? Janet Arvizo is a very interesting individual in some ways. Janet Arvizo sometimes directly asks for money. She directly asked her lawyer, Mr. Ranieri, for a contribution. He said no. More often than not, Janet Arvizo does not directly ask for money. But she's so skilled at what she does in articulating her tales of woe, her family's poverty, her abuse, all the problems, that invariably the person she's talking to decides on their own to write her a check. Isn't that what happened to Hamid Moslehi at the home during the rebuttal video? He saw her giving an acting lesson, as she describes it, about her state of affairs. “Everybody abandoned us. DCFS. My husband. Everyone. Nobody would come. I couldn't -- I couldn't feed my children. I had no cereal to give them. We had no money. We had no means of transportation. We couldn't get anywhere”. She tells all of this in the rebuttal. Then she has a 25-minute discussion with Hamid, and what does he do? He writes her a $2,000 check. I ask you, was she asking for money? When she was on the phone with Jamie Masada and Jay Jackson -- and she was living with Jay Jackson at the time. He was making $80,000 a year. And Jay Jackson asked if Masada would pay the costs of the karate school with Janet on the phone, do you think she was asking for something? See, Janet Arvizo is much smarter than her ex-husband David. David was like a bull in a china shop. He would just come out and say, “Give us money”, or he'd send Gavin out to say, “Give us money”. Janet develops a relationship first. She hardly knows you and she's hugging you. She's loving you. She's saying, “You're our family. You're my brother. You're my father. We're all part of your family and you're part of ours”. She starts sending letters to Michael Jackson in 2002, when Mr. Zonen told you there was no contact. Every letter, “Daddy Michael, you're our family. We love you. We can't live without you”, words to that effect. Janet Arvizo waits and develops a relationship before she looks you in the eye and gives you a tale of woe about why you should give something to her. And it's happened time again, time again, time again. Now, you know that Janet Arvizo wanted her children to be actors. You know that, because they went to various schools to be actors. Every time they went to a school about how to act, she told the teachers how poor they were. You know her children wanted to be actors. They said they wanted to be actors. And you know that she had an almost compulsive addiction to celebrities. I submit it wasn't just about getting money. It was almost a thrill. It was almost an excitement. They called every celebrity in town they could get their hands on. Chris Tucker said, “They made me think I was the only comedian in their life. I later learned they were calling every comedian in Los Angeles”. It's a very unusual story. It's hard to believe that it's true when you really step back and look at the MO of the Arvizos. But it is true and we proved it. Now, are they liars? I'm going to show you pages of this transcript from this trial, their testimony to you, and I'm going to show you where they have repeatedly committed perjury in this trial. But that's nothing new. Look at the J.C. Penney lawsuit. How did that suit originate? Eight-year-old Gavin shoplifted, ran into a parking lot and was followed by security guards. David followed, Janet came out from another location, and an altercation developed. Janet and David were arrested. You saw Janet's booking photo at the police department. Not only is there not a bruise on her face, her hair is very neat. It couldn't be neater. She filled out documents, “I have no medical problems. I have no injuries. I don't need attention”. She left the jail at approximately twelve o'clock, went to a hospital that evening, and had photos taken within the next couple of weeks at the request of her attorney, and lo and behold, she was bruised, lo and behold she was injured, and lo and behold a lawsuit was filed. Very interesting the way that lawsuit developed, because Janet Arvizo had Gavin testify for her in a sworn deposition at the age of approximately nine or ten. And Janet Arvizo initially did not allege sexual assault. Initially she alleged assault and false imprisonment. As her thoughts about how to get money from J.C. Penney and Tower Records developed, the sexual assault claims developed as well. She amended her complaint, and suddenly, to the surprise of her own lawyer, who couldn't believe what he was hearing at a deposition, she had been fondled 25 times in a parking lot, after security guards did belly flops on top of her, after they spit on her children, after they spit pumpkin seeds at them, after they hit them all with closed fists, after they hit them with handcuffs, after they bruised every part of her body. The claims went through an evolutionary process. They developed and got bigger and bigger and bigger. And she used her son's illness, his cancer, to get damages. She claimed that Star had a cyst on his brain. That was to get damages. Eventually J.C. Penney settled in a fraudulent lawsuit for $152,000. This is a pattern that serves as a looking glass for everything that followed. And I repeat: Ten days after she gets the money, she doesn't just seek welfare under penalty of perjury, she seeks emergency welfare assistance using violence in the home as a reason. Now, I have some graphs we're going to show you that plot out these evolutionary claims, but I have to tell you, it's a pattern and it does not stop, and it's going to right in this courtroom today. You know that Gavin Arvizo, at a very young age, made a false claim of abuse against his mother in the 1990s to the Department of Children & Family Services. He then withdrew the claim. He was very young. He was very street smart. He'd been schooled by his parents, David and Janet. You note in the middle of Janet's spousal abuse case with her ex-husband David, suddenly the claim that David had molested Davellin surfaced. I'm going to show you her testimony in this courtroom. She doesn't remember it. She didn't know it happened. She said she was too young. Janet told her it happened. The slow evolution of a claim of molestation. Just like what happened in this case. And I will chart it out for you, the meetings with lawyers, the meetings with Masada, the development of claims, starting off with claims about, “We don't want to be in the lawsuit in England. We don't -- we want our stored materials back”, evolving into harassment, evolving into false imprisonment, evolving into molestation. I will chart that out for you in my closing argument. Whenever you see a legal claim from Janet Arvizo or Gavin Arvizo, you have cause to be suspicious. The history is clear. The manipulation is absolute. Janet Arvizo and lawyers. Have any of you tried to count how many lawyers she's seen in her short life? I'll give you some ideas. She said she had a lawyer in her civil divorce action with David and her criminal proceedings with David for all these years named Manning. She had lawyers represent her in the J.C. Penney case against J.C. Penney and Tower Records. She had a criminal defense attorney represent her when they were arrested at J.C. Penney. She went to Bill Dickerman while she allegedly was being falsely imprisoned. And by the way, she first went to Bill Dickerman on the 21st of February, 2003. Two days after that, they were continuing to go after their visas and passports at various federal buildings. And the prosecution tells you she was not trying to develop a lawsuit against Michael Jackson? You have in evidence the visa applications. You have the passport applications. You have documents showing they're going to the Brazilian consulate, they're going to the federal building in Los Angeles. She's already been to Bill Dickerman. What do you think is going on? Bill Dickerman represents her for a period of time and then shuttles her off to Larry Feldman, who is a very well-known attorney in Los Angeles who had represented the Chandlers against Mr. Jackson in 1993. Why do you think he sends her to Larry Feldman? Why do you think he has a profit-sharing arrangement with Larry Feldman? Why do you think Mr. Feldman gets ahold of Stanley Katz, a psychologist he used against Mr. Jackson in the early '90s? Why do you think Mr. Masada is bringing her to all these meetings? Doesn't it suggest everybody's looking for a big payday against Michael Jackson? There's only one thing they need. A conviction, by you. There's going to be great celebration in Los Angeles among this group if he is convicted of one single count in this case. You heard Mr. Feldman testify. He spent an enormous amount of money in the early '90s litigating and getting a settlement against Mr. Jackson. He didn't want to do it again. He told the grand jury in Santa Barbara he didn't want to spend that money again. He grudgingly admitted that if Mr. Jackson is convicted in this courtroom, he will not have to spend huge sums of money establishing liability in a civil courtroom. It will be established. Now, he tried to fudge his way around this by suggesting that once liability is established, if you want to prove punitive damages, you still have to prove malice and you still have to go into court. That's true. But isn't liability the big hurdle? Aren't they all after millions from Mr. Jackson? Haven't you seen one witness after another come into this courtroom having sued Mr. Jackson, having tried to get a settlement out of Mr. Jackson? Every one, Ralph Chacon, McManus, Abdool, Cindy Montgomery. They're all lined up. He has a reputation for being a very childlike person, very naive, very idealistic, a musical genius. A person who likes to sit in trees and compose. A person who likes to spend time in the studio. A person who, from an early age, was such a genius at what he did that he attracted millions of dollars before he even knew what it meant. A person who has not managed his money terribly well. Has allowed people to use his signature. Has trusted the wrong people. They've emptied out accounts. They've diverted funds. Mr. LeGrand even had the people around him investigated for stealing from Mr. Jackson, the very people the prosecution claims were his co-conspirators. And he has been a target for years, particularly after he settled with Chandler and Francia, because he doesn't like courtrooms, he doesn't like lawyers particularly, he doesn't like litigation. He's known to be childlike, and different, and creative, and offbeat. He's known not to trust adults. He's known to have developed Neverland as a Disney-like environment to bring inner city children so they can have some fun. He's known to have developed his own lifestyle in a very idealistic and naive kind of way. And he is an unbelievable target because he's attracted millions and millions and millions of dollars through the years because of his genius and his talent and through his hard work. This case is no different. You saw Mr. Robel in that taped interview with Gavin in July, the first interview, before any investigation had ever taken place, he looked at him and he said, “We're going to bring a criminal case. You and your mother are victims. Mr. Jackson is wrong. The people around him are wrong”. He hadn't even investigated the case and the train started rolling and nobody would put the brakes on. They didn't know anything about the Arvizos on that date. They didn't want to know. They didn't want to know about welfare fraud and perjury and lying under oath, and J.C. Penney, and hustling celebrities, and bank accounts, putting checks into her mother's account to hide it from welfare and everybody else. Nobody knew about that on this side of the table. The problem is when they began to learn, nobody wanted to say “Stop”, and that's why we're here. And I submit, you cannot let injustice happen in this courtroom. You cannot let these people prevail. They're all just ready to pounce with a conviction. I don't have to say much about welfare fraud and perjury. We proved it. The applications prove it. They're all signed under penalty of perjury. They're all manipulative. Not only what's said and what's not said, but what she does. She takes her welfare checks and puts them through Jay Jackson's account, a person in the United States Army making $80,000 a year. She doesn't want a record of where she's depositing them. She doesn't want them to be traced. She lies about settlements. She lies about where she's living. She lies about who's helping support her. She lies to get food stamps. She lies to get disability. Everything she can get her hands on, we have proven is true. And perjury is meaningless to her. She lied in the J.C. Penney depositions. She lied on the applications. Perjury is a habit. And she committed perjury right in this courtroom. We're going to show you some transcripts to show it. I submit, ladies and gentlemen, the biggest red flag in these claims is Janet Arvizo and Gavin Arvizo and Star Arvizo and Davellin Arvizo going to lawyers before they go to the police. The visits to lawyers start on February 21st, 2003, when they meet Attorney Bill Dickerman. As I said before, they have more meetings with him. He refers them to Larry Feldman. Feldman brings in Stan Katz. Feldman has a profit-sharing arrangement with Dickerman. They're having all of these meetings, developing their claims, and they don't go to the police until June 13th, 2003, four months later. If you truly believe you've been falsely imprisoned, you've been extorted, your children have been abducted, your children have been molested, they've been plied with alcohol to take advantage of illness, why are you going to all these lawyers first? This is not the first time civil lawyers have tried to manipulate the criminal process to get their work done for them, by the way. Think about it. You don't have to hire experts. You don't have to hire investigation. You don't have to go through months of trial. Because if somebody is convicted and found guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, the civil burden of proof, preponderance of the evidence, is already established. They want the taxpayers of this county to establish liability for them. And it's crystal clear that that has been their plan from day one. And I'm asking you not to let it happen. To let it happen, you have to strip Mr. Jackson of his freedom and reputation. You have to label him a convict. You have to label him a sex offender. You have to label him all of the things he is not and they have not proven he is. This is a case, a prosecution, based on the Arvizos' lies and innuendo and exaggerations only. Do any of you really think, from what you've learned about Mr. Jackson, that he would even be capable of running a conspiracy to abduct children, falsely imprison a family, ship them off to Brazil? For what purpose? To make a documentary that they didn't even appear in? For what purpose? I want you to think carefully, ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to think carefully about the dates of the alleged molestation. The charge says the molestations occurred February 20th, 2003, through March 12th, 2003. They claim the molestations begin right after the filming of the rebuttal and the DCFS interview. Now, why do they pick those dates? Because Janet and her family were so laudatory, so effusive about Michael Jackson, praising him every which way they could. “He's a father figure. He's generous. He's caring. He's sensitive. He's always there for them. He helped Gavin with his illness”. The dates were carefully chosen to follow those statements. They couldn't get away from those statements. They had to do something about them. But think about this, ladies and gentlemen: How absurd is it to say molestation by Michael Jackson occurred on Gavin Arvizo between February 20th and March 12th? What's going on at that point in time? And I will show you a timeline as well. You've got international media scrutiny of Michael Jackson. He's under a microscope, the Arvizos are under a microscope, because of the Bashir documentary. Everyone's talking about it. All sorts of media are buzzing around. They're following the Arvizos. They're trying to follow Michael Jackson. There's ample evidence to suggest that. The Arvizos don't like it. Mr. Jackson, of course, is used to it. He seems to have generated publicity his whole career. But to make a long story short, there is no question you have a media frenzy going on internationally. You have a Department of Children & Family Services investigation going on as well. Mr. Jackson knows it, Janet Arvizo knows it, everyone knows it. Remember the evidence of leaks from DCFS that the prosecution didn't care for? Everyone knows about the investigation. Mr. Geragos is doing his own investigation into the Arvizos because he's concerned about who they are, who they meet with, what their motives are, what they're up to. He told you that he did a quick litigation search. He saw the J.C. Penney suit. It raised some red flags, as it should have for any lawyer pledged to protect a client, and he started his own investigation with Brad Miller, a licensed private investigator. So that's going on. The evidence has shown and proven that the effort to produce a rebuttal show was monumental. You had producers, you had distributors, you had agents, you had lawyers, you had different networks vying to do it. You've already heard about CBS being at Neverland. Janet Arvizo was there on that particular day. Mr. Geragos was there on that particular day. To make a long story short, you have an intense effort to produce this rebuttal that the Arvizos never appeared in and didn't have to appear in. According to the prosecution, this criminal conspiracy is beginning on February 1st, 19 days before the alleged molestation. Put all this together, what does it say to you about the dates the so-called molestation occurred? It's absurd. It's unrealistic. And it makes no sense. Because the whole case makes no sense. You know, these molestation counts and this attempted molestation count, they are completely based on the testimony of Gavin and Star Arvizo. There is no independent witness who allegedly sees any of this. Star changed his story a bunch of times, as I will show you through transcript. But he's the one who says he saw molestation one night, when all the lights were out except the light on the stairwell. The lights in the room were out, he looked for a couple of seconds, and he says he saw Mr. Jackson, lying in bed, touch his brother, who's out like a light. He's asleep. He says he saw that twice. Gavin Arvizo says he was touched a couple of times as well. There is no independent witness to any of this. You have to believe Star beyond a reasonable doubt, you have to believe Gavin beyond a reasonable doubt, and look at the lies they told in court. I am going to go through transcripts of their testimony, but just to whet your appetite a little bit, they are profuse in their testimony that they only had alcohol with Mr. Jackson. And you know Shane Meridith caught them with alcohol. You know Simone caught them with alcohol. You know Angel Vivanco caught them with alcohol. They were profuse in their testimony that they didn't know anything about sexuality till Mr. Jackson showed them a “Hustler”-type magazine. And we know that's false, because they were caught. You know that Gavin looked at you, under oath, and said, “Mr. Jackson told me that if men don't masturbate, they'll go out and rape”, forgetting that he had told the grand jury, “My grandmother told me that”. We will go through a transcript as well about these particular witnesses, but you have to understand there's no independent witness allegedly watching any of this. You got to believe them beyond a reasonable doubt. You got to believe them all the way. It's impossible. The prosecution doesn't like to focus on the fact there is no forensic evidence supporting any of these alleged molestation claims. No DNA supports it. There's no semen stain or sample that supports it. No evidence of bodily fluids support it that you can link to Gavin. No hair, no fibers. They didn't fingerprint the bottles or any of the area where he's supposed to have been molested. No forensic evidence. No independent witness to any of this. Conspiracy. They have to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Michael Jackson had a specific intent to enter into an agreement to falsely imprison, abduct children and extort. There is no evidence that he did anything like that whatsoever. They don't put him at meetings. They don't record his phone calls. They don't have anything that suggests he wanted to enter into a felony conspiracy to commit these crimes on a family. They have to prove that he wanted to abduct these children to Brazil, I guess. How absurd is that? No plane tickets were ever purchased for the trip to Brazil. When they didn't want to go to Brazil, they went home. And they went home when they realized Michael Jackson was not going to Brazil, because Janet was playing all sides, like so many other people around Michael Jackson. She wanted to be part of Michael Jackson's world. She wanted to benefit from the financial, the celebrity, the public relations advantages she had with Michael Jackson. And everybody's playing everybody to see if they can gain advantage and be with Michael Jackson. It's been the story of his life. It's why his finances have had problems despite all these millions generated. The Arvizos were no different. Once she found the most popular celebrity in the world, who happened to be that childlike and that naive, who, unlike Jay Leno, didn't see the signs, unlike Chris Tucker, who eventually saw the signs, unlike others that got taken and disappeared, Michael brought this family into Neverland and took care of them. Can you imagine, based upon what you've seen in this courtroom, Michael Jackson conspiring to abduct children, falsely imprison or commit extortion? Does he look like the kind of person who would do that? You saw a tape. He wants to have celebrity animal parties. He wants an international day for children. He likes to sit in a tree and do music. He says, “Other people go to baseball games and football games. I like to sit in my tree”. He likes to create. He lets children visit Neverland who are ill and sick. Does he look like the kind of person who is even capable of masterminding a criminal conspiracy of this magnitude? It's absurd. And to even consider it, you have to believe Janet Arvizo beyond a reasonable doubt that she escaped from Neverland, went back, escaped from Neverland, went back, escaped from Neverland, went back. It's absurd on its face. And, ladies and gentlemen, you have to shake your head to think they would even bring a claim like that against Mr. Jackson, who, by the way, is the only person charged with it. Have one of these other alleged co-conspirators even been charged with a misdemeanor? No. No. It was done to keep them away from this courtroom, scare them. If you really think there was a conspiracy of this magnitude, if you really think the actions were this serious, if you really think a family was being abducted and hidden and spirited away to their doom, why do you only charge Michael Jackson? Because he's a mega celebrity and that's what this case is about. Seventy officers search his home. They don't do that in homicide cases. Seventy officers invade his privacy. Yes, he's a human being. They find a lot of girlie magazines; “Hustler”, “Playboy”, “Penthouse”. He does read them. Did he want the world to know that? No, that's his private life. Did he think they were going to bring it all into a courtroom and just flash it for the world? No. They went all around his house trying to find something. And I'm going to tell you in a little while what they didn't find. But let me just go through this general outline first. There is no incriminating statement by Mr. Jackson of any kind that, “I want these people spirited to Brazil. I want them held against their will. I want these children abducted, separate them from their mother”; nothing. In fact, throughout all of this elaborate evidence of a conspiracy, you hardly hear of him. He's not at meetings. He doesn't have a cell phone. They can do all this, you know, fancy arrows going every which way but Sunday, but where is Michael Jackson in the middle of this? In fact, the evidence is that Janet complained to Azja Pryor and others, including Maria Gomez, that “These people are separating me from Michael Jackson”. She felt she was a victim of their efforts to monopolize Michael Jackson and keep her away. And indeed, Mr. LeGrand did testify Dieter and Konitzer were intending to take over all of his affairs, all of his business matters, and Dieter and Konitzer didn't want Michael Jackson involved in their discussions. What significant events in this so-called conspiracy is he even at? Where is he? You don't know where he is. You don't hear from him. He's at Neverland. He's in his studio. He's traveling. Where is he when this so-called conspiracy is being hatched and operated? Janet's statements refute this whole idea of a conspiracy. Her actions refute the idea of a conspiracy, as you heard me say ad nauseam in my examination of witnesses: “Did you call the police? Did you call the police? Did you call the police”. No. The conspiracy's happening at Jay Jackson's apartment, a major in the U.S. Army. That's where the interviews with Brad Miller take place. That's where the Department of Children & Family Services interview take place. What kind of a conspiracy is going to want to meet at Jay Jackson's apartment? What kind of a conspiracy goes on with all of these hotels, and all of these shopping sprees and all of this stuff in full view? What kind of conspiracy goes on when you've got a licensed, bonded mover to move her stuff into storage and put it in Brad Miller's name? This is not a conspiracy. There's no conspiracy at all involving Mr. Jackson. Now, what some of these other guys may have done on occasion is unclear, because they weren't in the courtroom and Mr. Jackson wasn't with them. They're all trying to make a buck off of him, that's clear. They're all angling for advantage. That's clear. The testimony that Schaffel was trying to make a buck off Mr. Jackson is clear. The testimony that Konitzer and Dieter wanted to take over his affairs is clear. Where is Mr. Jackson in this conspiracy? You can put him in the center of a nice photograph and you can have all these faces around him, but that's not evidence. That's a substitute for evidence. Now, Mr. Jackson got himself in trouble by very innocently and naively telling Bashir, “I have allowed children into my bed. I have allowed children into my room. What do you do with a child that has no parents? What do you do? Children flock to me all over the world. I'm a childlike figure. And I see nothing wrong with it because nothing sexual happens. And the world needs more love, and children need more caring, and this is, like, kids are bringing guns to schools”. Idealistic, naive, in light of the target he is, but not criminal in nature. And if he really were out to commit crimes, why would he go on an international documentary and make these statements? Because he hasn't been committing crimes. But he has naively and idealistically and in a childlike way let people run roughshod through his home, let them sleep in his bedroom. He has opened his gates to all kinds of people. And it's a naive way to look at the world because he is such a target. He is. Say to yourself, why would he say these things to Bashir if he were a criminal? Why? Because he's not. Now, because their case is so weak, because of their concern that you're not going to believe the Arvizos beyond a reasonable doubt, this prosecution has engaged in a mean-spirited, nasty attempt, a barbaric attempt to dehumanize and degrade Mr. Jackson. It started during jury selection when Mr. Zonen talked about his sagging music career. It continued as they flashed magazines to you throughout the trial. It continued with efforts to show you his finances to show he's had some financial problems through mismanagement and misguided motives. And what am I talking about? The guy's millions in debt and he gives a million dollars to Marlon Brando because he feels bad about his friend. He pays for everybody. Shopping sprees, hotels. He has all these sharks around him getting power of attorney so they can sign documents for him. His generosity, his lax behavior knows no bounds because the man has a wonderful, kind heart. But they do it thinking somehow he'll be embarrassed, or they'll embarrass him by this preposterous claim that because Mr. Jackson had some financial difficulties with cash flow, that he would want to abduct a family to do a broadcast that didn't even include them, a broadcast that generated money that isn't even close to fulfilling the debt obligations that they tried to establish. They didn't really do it because they think you're going to buy that it's a motive for a conspiracy. They did it to embarrass him and dehumanize him in your eyes because they're worried you just might like Michael Jackson. You just might admire Michael Jackson. You just might have pity for Mr. Jackson for being treated the way they've treated him and for being the target of Mr. Sneddon's actions for many years. They're worried, and the only way they can handle it is through dirt everywhere. To take everything he has tried to build and create and accomplish and try and degrade it and dehumanize it, and I submit it's wrong. And I submit it's no substitute for evidence. It is absolute misconduct by them. He's not charged with possessing any illegal pornography, because no illegal pornography was found. Everything they found in his home was lawful. That was clear. He's not charged with showing adult material to children. That's not one of the charges here. They're doing that to dirty him up, and try to get you to somehow make it easier for you to convict him. He's not charged with lax supervision. How many times in this trial have we heard that kids get all the candy they want, all the ice cream they want; that kids can run around Neverland and have fun with the animals; that they're not supervised well enough; that the doors are open; that they run in and out of his room, in and out of his house? How often have we heard that? That they can jump on ATVs and drive everywhere. They tried to make it look like a crime. He's not charged with lax supervision. Kiki Fournier said he's too nice to people. He lets people into his house too often. He lets them run around. And of course you know the Arvizo kids, what they were doing, in and out of everything, like they were at every house they were able to get into. The prosecutor mentioned Dr. Esplin, our expert. Dr. Esplin said most false claims of molestation come from children ten and up and usually the motive is financial gain. And he talked specifically about a long history of deceptive behavior by the parents. Could you have parents with more of a pattern of deceptive behavior than David and Janet? The prosecution did us a favor. They focused on David, how he just hustled Mr. Lopez for money, and irritated people at The Laugh Factory, and irritated people at the hospital, and kept trying to get money, and concocted this scheme with Gavin, his young son, about George Lopez stealing money from a wallet. They painted him as the bad guy, not realizing that there was no way in the world they were going to make Janet look good. And what they did was they added all the pieces to the puzzle. This is a family where children have been taught to con, and children have been taught to lie, and children have been taught to very brashly and brazenly, and with no embarrassment or any type of restraint, call one celebrity after another, and keep bombarding them with calls, like they did to Jay Leno, like they did to Chris Tucker, like they did to Michael Jackson. This is the way they've been taught. It doesn't mean they're irredeemable. It doesn't mean they don't have some good qualities. Azja Pryor, a very nice person, fell in love with the kids. But she wasn't street smart like Mr. Leno. She didn't see what was coming until eventually they hounded her for a truck, hounded her for money. Janet told her her tale of woe and she gave her 600 bucks, and the pattern continued. The prosecutor mentioned Stanley Katz. He quoted Stanley Katz, Larry Feldman's good friend, who he hired in '93 to go after Mr. Jackson, who he brought into this case to take the same type of approach with the Arvizos. Do you remember Stanley Katz, a psychologist with the Ph.D., looked at you and said, “I've never heard of a false claim by a teenager”? Remember he said that? Remember he said that? Did anyone on this jury believe that? Of course you didn't. It was self-serving, it was manipulative and it was dishonest. Dr. Esplin is the leading authority on false claims. He's done studies with law enforcement all around the world. He told you children ten and up are the biggest group for making false claims like this. And if you see a pattern and a history of bad behavior by parents, it raises a red flag. Could you ever have imagined more of a history than what you've seen here? I want to clarify some of the issues in the case, ladies and gentlemen, because I really believe the prosecution, with their scattered claims of too much candy and too much girlie magazines and too much ice cream, and here, there and everywhere, are muddying the waters so you will not focus on what the real claim is. First of all, the only alleged victim of child molestation in this case is Gavin Arvizo. The counts only relate to Gavin Arvizo. They brought in alleged victims from the '90s - three of them came in and said nothing happened - because they're desperate. They are absolutely desperate. The only claims here relate to Gavin. If you don't believe Gavin and Star beyond a reasonable doubt, acquittal is necessary. As I said before, they're the only witnesses to the molestation counts. Nobody else. I told you they repeatedly lied under oath and I told you there's no independent witnesses to support their claims. What are you left with? What are you left with? What kind of a system do we have if these kinds of witnesses can convict someone and destroy their life, with all you know about them at this point. I talked about there not being forensic evidence. There's none. You know that he went to his teacher and was questioned twice. “Did Mr. Jackson ever molest you?” And the answer was, “No”. And that's when the prosecution started to backpedal. “Well, we have evidence that people delay reporting, and we have evidence that young men get embarrassed about being sexually handled in a way like this”. Some of that may be true, but how do you know it's true here? How do you know it's true here? And if the prosecution has the burden to prove a case beyond a reasonable doubt, how can they come to you and respond to the fact that he told this teacher on two occasions, “Mr. Jackson never touched me”, by saying, “Well, studies show that sometimes people delay their reports”? Is that proof beyond a reasonable doubt or is it just a wishy-washy type of explanation for something they know is devastating to their case because the problems continue: The lack of forensics, the lack of an independent witness, the lies under oath, the history of the family. Now you got a witness who Gavin Arvizo said it never happened to. And as I said before, he's the only alleged victim in the case. As I said before, he made a false claim about his mother abusing him in the '90s. He made false claims as a child in the J.C. Penney case where he was deposed under oath. He supported his mother in everything she wanted to do. I'm going to go through their transcripts, their testimony, and show you where Gavin and Star kept changing their stories, kept telling lies. And as I said before, the timing is outrageous that molestation is going to occur starting February 20th.
The Court: Is this a good place for a break?
Mr. Mesereau: Yes, sir.
Recess Message: Recess taken.
The Court: Counsel?
Mr. Mesereau: Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, the prosecution would like the defense to focus only on Janet Arvizo. That is their dream. Their dream is that we will focus on her and somehow the children will look clean and honest and truthful. And I want to make sure that's not what our thrust is. You may recall that Gavin Arvizo met Chris Tucker at his home and lied. He told him, “We made no money at the fund-raiser”, and that's when Chris Tucker wrote a check. Chris Tucker described him as cunning, smart. He didn't trust him. Even at a young age, Star Arvizo told Louise Palanker, “All we got was love for Christmas”, and she began to write the $10,000 checks. Davellin kept hassling Azja Pryor for Chris Tucker's truck. It was relentless. She finally had to stop talking to Davellin, and she actually liked Davellin. I don't want to suggest, in any shape or form, this is just a target of Janet. The whole family has difficulties with the truth, difficulties with honesty, difficulties with money, and the children have been raised this way. Now, I want to make a couple of things clear that I talked about earlier. In the J.C. Penney fraud, which Gavin was very much a part of at a young age, Janet was arrested and got out of jail at 9:15. David got out of jail at 12:03. Janet checked into the ER at 1:11 that day claiming she'd be injured. The family has been part of these fraud scams, not someone alone. When David was in the picture and manipulating celebrities, he used Gavin. Do you remember George Lopez said, “We'd go to a mall, and David would be standing there, and Gavin would be asking me to buy all these things. And I thought it was strange that the father would simply stand there, not say anything, and let his child just keep asking me to buy and buy and buy”. But that's the way it's worked. Mrs. Watson Johnson said that Star would call her asking for money and she could hear Janet in the background coaching him. Mary Holzer said that Janet bragged to her that her kids were good actors, that Gavin knew his lines well, but Star used to falter. He wasn't quite as smart, wasn't quite up to it. Could you believe how many witnesses came in to establish this MO of scamming and manipulating and lying? Can you believe that many people would come in to testify that this family has gotten in a rhythm, a pattern of going after celebrities? Because it's worked and worked and worked. It's a family program. It's not just Janet's problems. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the prosecution has tried to focus your attention on what they now call pornography at Neverland. And they found for the last ten years' worth of “Hustler”, “Playboy”, “Penthouse”, things of that sort. All legal. All heterosexual. In a library of thousands and thousands of books, they found a couple of books that focused on men. And they wanted you to think that somehow Mr. Jackson was some -- I don't know whether they're trying to say he's a gay man, or, as Mr. Zonen in his mean questioning, try to suggest he's asexual. They're not sure which way they're going. But basically they went through this home where thousands and thousands of books have accumulated, where the evidence was, that when fans around the world sent things to Mr. Jackson, he keeps everything like a pack rat. And what do they find? They found this book, “Boys Will Be Boys” - okay? - published in New York in 1966. Yes, it has some naked pictures of boys. It also has pictures that are not naked, okay? And what does it say, what is inscribed in the book? It says, “Look at the true spirit of happiness and joy in these boys' faces. This is the spirit of boyhood, a life I never had and will always dream of. This is the life I want for my children, MJ”. Now, you've already seen the outtakes where Mr. Jackson talks about his not having a childhood. He was working clubs at a young age at 3:00 in the morning --
Mr. Zonen: Your Honor, I'll object to this matter as exceeding the scope of the Court ruling.
Mr. Mesereau: Your Honor, the prosecution talked similarly about Bashir.
Mr. Zonen: It's the outtakes.
The Court: The objection is sustained on that.
Mr. Mesereau: Is this the sign of a pedophile? To write an inscription in a published book of this sort? The other book, “The Boy: A Photographic Essay”, says, “To Michael: From your fan, Rhonda”, with a little heart. “1983, Chicago”, it says in it. Now, Mr. Zonen didn't know what to do with that so he suggested through his questioning on cross-examination that maybe somebody had faked it. But there's no evidence anybody faked that. They seized these things in the early '90s. And was there any evidence that these books were ever shown to any witness? No. Not one witness came into this courtroom and said, “Michael Jackson showed me books of men”. Not one. Now, we're asking you to use your common sense in this area of alleged pedophilia. First of all, they never put a pedophilia expert on the stand, because they were afraid. Having all of these heterosexual books and magazines doesn't add up to pedophilia, okay? What do you typically find? You find illegal child pornography, websites galore, pictures. None of that came in. And, yes, the prosecution suggested they would prove that, and none of it was found at Neverland. No websites of pedophilia. No child sex pictures on websites. No photographs. None of the things you typically associate with a pedophile. And their biggest problem is repeated editions of “Hustler” and “Playboy” and “Penthouse” and “Barely Legal” do not equate with what they're trying to prove. I'm not saying it's necessarily commendable that you have all these magazines, but you can get them at any newsstand and there's been no evidence that anything was illegal. And if Mr. Jackson has been proven to like to read these magazines for years and years and years, how does that equate to their theory that he wanted to sexually touch a male child? It doesn't. There's a problem with their case. And as I said before, not one of these books they found, among thousands, of males was shown to a single witness. No illegal child pornography, either in a website or anywhere else. No websites where you try to meet children, like pedophiles often do, and the rest. This is nothing but a mean-spirited attempt to damage his reputation and embarrass him by digging into his private life through repeated searches, with 70 officers, trying to find something to dirty him up with. They have dirtied him up, because he's human. But they haven't proved their case. They can't. Now, you know that Gavin and Star tried to act like they're very naive on sexual matters. Do you remember that last police interview which they showed you so you would understand Gavin's demeanor? Well, you can certainly study his demeanor in conjunction with what's said, because they played for you what was said. It wasn't offered for the truth. The tape was offered to show his demeanor, but you can consider his demeanor in terms of what is said. Do you remember, after Mr. Robel said, “We're going to bring a criminal case against Mr. Jackson, and you're the victims, you and your mom”, before they'd even investigated? Do you remember he started off by looking at Gavin and saying, “Tell me something that's wrong. Give me an example of something that's wrong”. And Gavin hesitated. And you study his demeanor. He's sort of stymied. He doesn't quite know what to say. He comes up with, “Staying out late at night”.
Mr. Zonen: I'll object to the content as exceeding the scope of the court ruling.
The Court: Overruled.
Mr. Mesereau: And then they ask him, “Come up with something else”. And he hesitates. He has this guilty look on his face. He doesn't know what to say. He says, “Break things”. And then Mr. Robel says, “How about something else?” He hesitates. He looks stymied. He looks confused, and he says, “Kill somebody”. Did he ever say lie, cheat, or steal? Do most children his age, if you ask them, “Give me an example of something that's wrong”, say, “Don't lie; don't tell the truth”? No. And if you have time in the jury room, just take a look at the beginning of that interview. By the way, that's the same interview where his mother's outside the door, and he says, “I haven't told my mother any of this”, after they met for months with lawyers, okay? That's the same interview where you can study his demeanor as he lies about wanting to leave Neverland because he was scared. Didn't he testify to you that he loved Neverland, wanted to be there? Didn't he tell various witnesses he loved Neverland, wanted to be there? Study his demeanor. That's why they asked you to look at it. Study it. And study this sort of fake notion that he's unsophisticated in sexual matters. He acts like he doesn't know what an erection is. He's 13. His brother's been caught with girlie magazines at Neverland. He acts like he doesn't know what an ejaculation is. He acts so innocent. They've been meeting with Feldman and Dickerman and Masada and Katz for months. He's been talking to his mother about this stuff for months. Do you believe for a second they went to Feldman without thinking there was some type of molestation they could pull off? Why else do you go to Feldman? Why else? Do you really believe his mother was outside the door and they never talked about it? Study his demeanor. You don't see much emotion. You know, one of the most important moments in this trial was, I submit that when you get in the jury room, discuss this occurrence: He's on the witness stand. He describes the alleged sexual touching, the alleged molestation. You saw no emotion whatsoever. When did you see him really get mad? When he talked about Michael Jackson abandoning his family. Do you remember? Do you remember the emotion, the anger? Do you remember how he reacted? You can't look at a transcript and see it. You have to see it in person. He was angry because he felt that Michael Jackson had abandoned his family. They were not part of his world. And he wanted to be part of his world. That was clear. No emotion about the alleged touching. Plenty of emotion about, “Why did Michael do that to us?” That happened on cross-examination. And that sums up this case when it comes to Gavin Arvizo. Put all of this together, what do you get? The Arvizos, Gavin and Star, tried to suggest that Michael Jackson corrupted them with these magazines. Yet Star was caught twice with his own magazines. Julio Avila caught him with a magazine in his backpack. He said, “I got it at home”, when he was caught writing “Suck dick” on the wall. That is not a naive kid on sexual matters, but they'd like you to think it was all Michael Jackson taking these innocent little lambs and corrupting their minds. And it's baloney. They tried to tell you that Michael Jackson taught them masturbation and taught them the facts of life and, again, they were just these innocent little kids. But they were caught masturbating by Rijo, who took the stand and was as honest as can be and thoroughly abused by Mr. Zonen. Do you remember he started to wipe his eyes he was so scared about this whole event? Gavin and Star are not what they're trying to make you think they are. I've already talked about the financial motive. It's clear as day. You don't keep going to all these lawyers and changing your claims unless you have a financial motive. Demeanor? Well, in that police interview that they ended their case with, do you remember Gavin begins with, “How long is this going to take?” Do you remember that? You've got a police officer stroking him along, “You're the victim. You're the victim. We're going after Michael Jackson. We're going after his people. We're on your side. Don't be afraid”, encouraging him to make these accusations that conflict with things that he said to the police on other occasions. He didn't show emotion. Remember, he's trained as an actor. His mother's proud of it. He's proud of it. Does it complicate your job? Yes. But you have to deal with the facts. Does it make it harder to believe him beyond a reasonable doubt? It does. But the facts are the facts are the facts. These are the same kids that were dancing on the stage at The Laugh Factory about their poverty so celebrities would feel sorry for them. Now, as I said before, we're going to get into some transcript, because transcripts don't lie. I want to show you what they said in this courtroom so the prosecution can't get up and just misinterpret what they said or did. Let me cover a few more points first. The alcohol counts. I want to be clear on what you're being asked to do. The felony alcohol counts require proof beyond a reasonable doubt that alcohol was given to molest Gavin Arvizo. He's the only alleged victim of those counts. What they're saying is Michael Jackson, with all you know about him through this trial, would look at a cancer patient, a child, and say, “Ah-hah, I'm going to ply him with alcohol so I can disable him and molest him”. Michael Jackson couldn't even conceive of such a thing. He couldn't. The same problems with the molestation counts exist for the felony alcohol counts, because it's allegedly giving alcohol for the purpose of molesting. Now, Judge Melville read you the jury instructions yesterday, and there is the option of a misdemeanor count on alcohol. It's called a lesser-included. But it still requires that you believe Gavin Arvizo beyond a reasonable doubt, okay? And it still requires that the time period for the alleged molestation be the time period for that misdemeanor count. And you can't believe Gavin Arvizo on alcohol beyond a reasonable doubt. Why? He and Star claim they only drank with Michael Jackson. Remember that? They repeatedly say that under oath. Shane Meridith caught the two of them in the wine cellar with a half-empty bottle of wine. Michael Jackson was nowhere around. So they lied under oath. Rijo Jackson. He says he was in Michael Jackson's bedroom. Michael Jackson was in the bathroom. A glass and a bottle of alcohol was brought in while Michael Jackson was in the bathroom. Gavin and Star ran upstairs and then ran out of the room, and after they'd run out of the room alcohol was missing from the bottle. Now, I ask you this: If Michael was so freely giving them alcohol, why did they have to run out of the room behind his back? Why? Simone Jackson was in the kitchen area. Saw them come in and go to the refrigerator and take alcohol. They didn't see her. Michael Jackson was nowhere near where they were that night. They've lied under oath about alcohol. Angel Vivanco. He says that Star told him, “You either put this liqueur in my milkshake or I'll get you fired”. Michael Jackson isn't there. Now, the alcohol allegations don't relate to the air flight, okay? That's not the time period. As I said before, the time period for the alcohol allegations is the same time period for the molestation allegations, which allegedly start February 20th, and I've talked to you about how weird that is and how ridiculous it is. But the Arvizos came up with this story on the plane about drinking alcohol, but Cynthia Bell saw none of this. And she didn't have credibility problems. They did. Michael Jackson wanted alcohol in cans so kids couldn't see it, because he does drink alcohol on occasion and he doesn't like to advertise it. Of course, with this investigation, his personal life has been turned topsy-turvy, and they're trying to make a criminal out of him because he gets intoxicated from time to time. You have to look at this with a human lens. You have to look at him as a human being. He's been put under this microscope his whole life as this megastar. Some say he's better known than Elvis around the world, but that has a price attached to it. And the price sometimes is loneliness and confusion and not knowing who your friends even are. And he is a human being, but he's not a criminal. Jesus Salas. They thought he was going to be their star witness on alcohol. They put him on the stand. He said he came into Michael's room with wine, glasses and soda. They got upset that he mentioned soda. He said, “You never asked me about it before”. Now, if Michael Jackson is giving alcohol to the Arvizos, then why is he coming into his room with soda cans for them? Why? When the Arvizos testified that they only had alcohol with Michael Jackson, they lied, and they lied and they lied. You cannot believe them beyond a reasonable doubt. You cannot convict on those counts. I just want to refer you to the end of this. Some of this is a little repetitive, but he's not charged with negligent or lax supervision. That's not a crime. It's not in this case. If they were running wild around Neverland because their parents let them do it or Michael let them do it, if they get ahold of the key, if they did kitchen raids, as they testified to, in the house and grabbed alcohol from the refrigerator, that's not a crime he's charged with. He's not charged with being negligent, okay? They've got to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that he intended to furnish stuff to these kids. I want to refer you to the third one, because, you know, in their efforts to say there's a conspiracy by Michael Jackson to abduct children, extort, falsely imprison, that because he was having a cash flow problem, despite the millions he makes every year, that he was going to engage in this scam to whisk this family off to Brazil, I'd like to refer you to the third item. Ladies and gentlemen, turn on the television any night of the week. Don't celebrities have public relations problems? Don't celebrities get arrested, get charged, get videotaped in compromising positions, get audiotaped, get photographed? Don't people who've known them with an axe to grind come forward and tell stories? When they have public relations problems, they deal with them. The public relations problems associated with Bashir were dealt with. You had a Maury Povich documentary to deal with it. It was a successful documentary. All of these various factors came together to produce it on the 20th. This is the way celebrities deal with PR problems. They're always faced with them, and their public relations spokespeople always tell them, “This is a crisis. This is the biggest problem of your life. We'll deal with it. Here's how we deal with it”. The idea that the Bashir documentary was such a public relations problem that he would commit felonies like this is ridiculous. Is ridiculous. Now, if some of the people around them are excessive -- I don't know if they were or not. I mean, they brought in evidence there was a rock thrown at the Arvizo house. I mean, Michael Jackson is nowhere near that if it happened. They brought in testimony that the Germans, so to speak, were mean to Janet, although Angel Vivanco says she was having champagne with Dieter, and they appeared to be getting along the first time and the next time they weren't. If anybody acted excessively, Michael Jackson didn't. He's nowhere to be seen. And he had no intention and would never deal with a PR crisis -- it wasn't the first PR crisis in his career, by the way. He's been under a microscope, a looking glass, since he was a child. He doesn't engage in a conspiracy to kidnap a family to Brazil. The response was the documentary, which was successful. Okay. Now -- okay. All right. You know, and I will show you Janet's transcripts, you know, that she knew a lot of police officers. Do you remember I asked her all these questions about Andrew Lassak, a police officer that she knew, police officers from the MTA, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, that she knew, and she was gladly describing how the police station was constructed? I'll show you the transcript. And Lassak was in touch with them. She had his cell phone number. She knew other police in the area and never went to any of them and said, “We're in trouble. We're being falsely imprisoned. We're being held against our will. We're victims”. Nothing of this. She told Azja Pryor she was hoping to go to Brazil and she hoped Azja would come with her. Now, you know that David LeGrand was concerned that Dieter and Konitzer and Schaffel, he even investigated Vinnie and Frank, who were like really young kids, he was concerned they were all engaged in self-dealing and they were taking advantage of Michael Jackson. And he hired an investigative firm in New York to investigate. Do you remember the testimony about finding an offshore account that he thought Sony had set up, et cetera? And he approached Dieter and Konitzer and said, “Where did this $900,000 go? You've just withdrawn it. Justify it”. And of course Mr. Auchincloss, in a remarkable shift of position, got up and tried to prove they hadn't stolen anything. If LeGrand was concerned about these alleged co-conspirators and what they were doing to Michael, does that suggest Michael is involved in a conspiracy with them? Or does it suggest the same old pattern of Michael Jackson, the creative genius, generating hundreds of millions of dollars in his lifetime, and letting people sign his name, and letting people steal money, and letting people get away with all sorts of financial things? Otherwise, with what you've seen of his finances, why would he have cash flow problems? Why would that Beatles catalog be leveraged? He hasn't always managed money well, but he's not a criminal, and he doesn't commit crimes because of it. You know that Weizner and Konitzer tried to take over his business, because LeGrand said so. He saw documents where they said, “We're going to take over Michael Jackson's affairs”. You know that Schaffel was stealing from Michael Jackson. Their star witness, Rudy Provencio, who none of you would buy a used car from, believe me, he said Schaffel was stealing from Michael Jackson. Remember Provencio, who suddenly came up with a diary at the last minute, who was recording people's phone calls not knowing he was being recorded as well, and in one classic comment said, “I'm not even giving my lawyer information. This is for the book, honey”. Remember the word “honey”? This is the guy they want you to think you can trust, their star witness on conspiracy, who couldn't put Michael Jackson anywhere either, except in a recording studio. They did nothing to refute the notion that Geragos, as any lawyer would in his position, put the Arvizos under surveillance. You're allowed to do that. It's done in cases all the time. People do in divorce cases. They do it in criminal cases, and they have private investigators who are licensed, like Miller was, follow people around to see where they're going. And based on what you knew of the Arvizos, you can see why. It's not part of a conspiracy. It was a lawyer representing a celebrity client who he feared was about to be shaken down, about to be taken advantage of, who had a history of being taken advantage of, and he did exactly what he should have done. He investigated. And he was very open about what he did. As I said before, if this was a conspiracy to hide a family, or worse, whatever they're saying, why is Miller using a bonded, licensed mover, who had pretty good record-keeping procedures, to move their stuff into storage and put it under his name? Dickerman and Janet and Masada meet at The Laugh Factory on the 21st. Dickerman never calls the police. And as I said before, after the 21st, she continues to go to these various embassies and get her visas and her passport stuff done. Does that suggest there's a conspiracy going on? Does that suggest she's worried? Or does it suggest, “Hey”, you know, “We wanted Michael to be our family. We wanted to be included. There's nobody left now. Gavin's healed. Star's healed. We're not going to use illness to generate money anymore through any lies or manipulations. We're slipping away from Mr. Jackson. These guys are taking over his affairs. They're keeping us away from him. Now how do we get something out of this?” Go to a lawyer. That's what she did, and that's what she's still doing. You've heard a lot about the body wax, the shopping sprees, the hair appointment. She had an excuse for everything, that somehow she was being forced to the orthodontist against her will, that somehow she was being forced to get a body wax against her will. The woman from the salon came in, and it was interesting. She said Janet looked at her and said, “I'm from South America”. A little strange. Sounds like she might have Brazil on her mind, and it sounds like it may not be something she's particularly concerned about. But she was left there alone. She could have done whatever she wanted. She could have called 9-1-1 at any time. She wanted a hair appointment for the next day. I mean, all of these witnesses came in. No one detected any concern by Janet that she was being held against her will. Nobody saw a PR crew following. Nobody substantiated any of the things Janet said to you under oath, because they're false. Her problem, as I said before was, she figured out, “At some point Michael's not going to be our family/father soon. Now what do we do to gain?” And here we are. Now, the prosecutor talked about these alleged prior bad acts. A prosecutor once told me, “Prior bad acts are a band-aid for a bad case”, because none of these alleged victims are alleged victims in this case. So why do they bring them in? If they've got such a great case for Gavin being a victim, why are they bringing these people in and why are they trying to sell you false claims of molestation? And I do mean false. Macaulay Culkin says he was never molested. He called it absolutely ridiculous. And they tried to attack Macaulay like he was trying to lie on the stand. They want you to believe people like Ralph Chacon, Adrian McManus and Kassim Abdool rather than Macaulay Culkin or Wade Robson or Brett Barnes. Why does a prosecution come into this courtroom and tell you these three people are victims of molestation when they are absolutely adamant they're not? Why? If they're trying to tell you the truth. Adrian McManus said in a deposition under oath that Mr. Jackson never did anything to any child. Then changes her story; goes to the tabloids. She and Chacon and Abdool find out that Blanca Francia and Jordan Chandler got money, and they want money, too. They don't want to work. They want to be millionaires at Mr. Jackson's expense. Ladies and gentlemen, when he settled those two cases in the early '90s, he became a real target for people who don't want to work. And he still is. McManus, a Judge in this courthouse, in this county, finds that she stole from a child's trust. A Judge in this courthouse finds that she acted with malice against Michael Jackson. She sues Michael Jackson. He cross-complains and decides not to settle that case, just to fight it. It's the longest trial in the history of -- civil trial in the history of this courthouse, six months. And he prevails, and he wins his cross-complaint, and there's a judgment against McManus and Chacon and Kassim for over a million dollars. McManus is found with materials from Neverland stored in her house. She steals from a children's trust. She steals from Mr. Jackson. She has judgments against her. They want you to believe her over these alleged victims who come in and say, “He didn't do anything to us”. What does that tell you about their case? What does that tell you about how desperate they are to do something to win? Wade Robson got on the stand and he said, “These claims that I was molested are ridiculous”, were his words. What does Mr. Zonen do? He starts grabbing these books and shoving them in his face, books he's never seen before, and asking him to describe sex acts to you. That's his response. Abusive, mean- spirited, and having nothing to do with seeking the truth. Nothing. Brett Barnes came in and was angry. He said, “It absolutely never happened. I wouldn't stand for it”. He was angry. He flew from Australia, he gave up his job, to come here and testify that this stuff is false. Do they want you to believe him? No. No, put your faith and trust in Ralph Chacon, who said he wanted to be a millionaire in his deposition in that case. Put your faith and trust in Kassim Abdool, who forgot that he had signed a statement saying he never saw anything improper happen at Neverland and admitted he wanted to be a millionaire. Put your faith and trust in Adrian McManus. Put your faith and trust in all the trips to the tabloids they made through that agent they hired, who they claim their lawyer was responsible for. Don't believe these three young men who say, “We were never touched”. It's the story of this case. Jordan Chandler never testified. He filed a lawsuit with Larry Feldman and got money. Mr. Jackson settled that case in the early '90s. He didn't even come into court, say one way or the other. His mother hasn't seen him. June Chandler, his mother, never testified she saw any molestation. What she testified to was that Michael became essentially a member of their family and stayed at their home in his room. She also said he stayed at her ex-husband's home in the room with Jordan, but she never saw any molestation and never testified to any. And that's a strange story, too, because Joy Robson said, “She's a gold digger”. She made a statement in an interview that men had disappointed her in her life and she didn't know if she wanted another man in her life, meaning Michael. Joy was correct. She was out for fame and fortune, and that's what she's all about. Blanca Francia took 20,000 from a tabloid, talked to Larry Feldman and ended up with another lawyer and settled. Jason Francia says tickling went too far after he initially denied anything had happened. He said, “At the age of 16, money became important to me”, and he settled. And guess what? No criminal case was ever filed against Michael Jackson for any of these alleged victims. Now, let me ask you this, ladies and gentlemen: If Jason Francia cooperated with Mr. Sneddon, and indeed he said Mr. Sneddon was there for the first meeting with his counselor, I wonder what Mr. Sneddon was trying to do? If he cooperated with the sheriffs, if he allowed himself to be interviewed -- although in his last interview, he said, “Don't tape-record it”. Do you remember that? That was an interview having to do with this trial. He and his lawyer showed up at the sheriff's office and said they didn't want it tape-recorded, all right? But let's assume, and it seems pretty clear, that he cooperated with law enforcement from day one. Remember the cross-examination on his interviews? He first denied anything happened. Then these police were leaning on him with curse words, et cetera, and he said, “Well, he tickled me”, and then he started remembering it went too far, et cetera, said his genitals were touched. Let's assume all of that's true. He cooperates. He works with Mr. Sneddon. He works with the sheriffs. Why was a case not filed? Why? Because they didn't think they could win one with him. He took money. His mom took money. His mom went to a tabloid. He came into court and said, “Gee, I didn't even know my mom went to a tabloid”. Mr. Zonen said that to you in his closing argument a little while ago like you're supposed to believe it. He didn't tell you he didn't want his interview with the police tape-recorded, did he? No criminal case for any of these people. Phillip LeMarque. I've already talked Chacon, McManus, Abdool. They were all part of that group that did the same thing. Phillip LeMarque, he was the chef that claims that Macaulay Culkin was being touched, when Macaulay Culkin says he wasn't being touched. Remember, he was the one who tried to up his price to $500,000 for a story and said, “I was just kidding around”. He had that agent representing him. He kept upping the price, and eventually he found out the agent sold the story himself. You're going to trust him over Macaulay Culkin? They want you to. That's what they want. If you listen to them, Macaulay, Wade, Brett, all came here to lie under oath and say they weren't molested. Do you buy any of that? I want to mention one other thing about these families. The prosecution would like you to think that Michael Jackson, the manipulative monster, sort of befriends families and just uses them and discards them, and that he somehow has a pattern of doing this, and he did it to the Arvizos, those poor souls. These families have been friends of Michael Jackson, in one case almost 20 years. They consider Michael to be in their family. They love him as a family member. They trust him. They have stayed friends all these years, and if they wanted to develop false claims, like others, they could have. And they could have stood in line for millions, the Robsons, the Barneses, Macaulay. They didn't. And when their family member, their friend, was in trouble in this courtroom, they came here to testify, and they didn't have to. Macaulay Culkin is 24 years old. He is very wealthy and very successful. He's on top of the world. He's in his 20s. You're immortal in your 20s. He didn't have to come here and testify for his friend. He did it because he wanted to do the right thing. And the same with Brett Barnes flying from Australia. The same with Wade Robson. He's a successful choreographer now. They came here to stand up for their friend in a time of need and tell the truth. And they want you to believe Chacon, Abdool and McManus and LeMarque rather than these three individuals and their families, sisters, mothers, et cetera. What does it tell you about their motives? What does it tell you about their case? What does it tell you about what they're willing to do to try and win in this courtroom? I have some timelines I just want to quickly go through with you before we get into transcript, if I may. J.C. Penney suit. All right. August 27th, '98, the arrest. Then you have the lawsuit filed in '99, okay? Janet files for divorce in October of 2001, right before the settlement. The settlement checks are received, and ten days later she wants emergency welfare assistance. And as I said to you before, this provides a lens through which you can look at this case, because the sexual assault claims evolved later on. That's why her lawyer was so shocked at the deposition. Janet Arvizo versus David Arvizo. 9-29-01, she tells the Los Angeles Police Department her husband assaulted her. Later on, as things evolve, she claims false imprisonment and child molestation on Davellin, where Davellin says she doesn't remember it. Her mother told her about it. Now, I'm not saying David is some prize character. Apparently he's not. Sounds bad news to me and probably to you. But did he really molest Davellin? Or did Janet concoct it? And would Janet concoct false claims of sexual touching? Ask yourselves that question. Here's the lawsuit developing against Michael Jackson. February 21st, she meets with Attorney Bill Dickerman at The Laugh Factory. They have a number of meetings with Masada. She meets Attorney Larry Feldman April 3rd. He has her meet with Stan Katz, his business associate, on May 15th. Feldman goes to the police in June. Gavin's first interview is July. And all the while she's having meetings with Masada, Dickerman, Feldman and Katz, and the claims get bigger and bigger and bigger. Remember the correspondence that Dickerman sent Geragos? Nothing about false imprisonment, nothing about alcohol, nothing about molestation. Begins with, “Make sure nobody has the rights to our film footage. Give us our stored materials back. Stop harassing us”. Evolves, evolves, evolves. And you got to ask yourself this question: Gavin says he never told his mother, and he went to the police and finally said, “I was molested” in July. Why did they go to Feldman in April? Why does anybody go to Feldman in a situation like this? Do any of you really think they didn't have in mind a molestation case when they went to Feldman? And you know something? Three lawyers in this courtroom, Feldman, Dickerman and a lawyer for Blanca Francia, all told you Gavin, Star, Davellin, they have till the age of 18 before the clock starts ticking on a civil suit. Feldman told you there's still time for Janet to sue Michael Jackson. And he told you he filed a Notice of Claim against Los Angeles County, and there's still time for Star and Gavin to file a claim against Los Angeles County. And Janet on the stand tried to hesitate about whether he still represents her. They were playing all these games. But the fact is, he'd been on the phone with her recently, he'd been on the phone with Jay Jackson, he had been helping her with subpoenas. What do you think is going on? If the time hasn't run to file a civil case, and if a conviction here allows you to automatically win it, and the lawyer's still in touch with these alleged victims, what do you think is going on? And by the way, remember in the J.C. Penney case, in her deposition Janet said, “Initially I only wanted an apology, and I said there would be no civil suit”. Do you remember that? Did she keep her word? Did she file a civil suit eventually when she realized, “I can get some money out of this deal?” Did sexual assault claims then evolve later on? Yes. Same pattern. Same motives. Same lies. Just like here. Just like here. She just needs one more thing: You to convict Michael. All this group wants. Masada, Dickerman, Feldman, Katz and the Arvizos. That's all they need. And you have that power in your hands to make them rich, and they'll never have to work a day in their life. You have the power. I talked about the questionable timing of this so-called molestation. February 6th, airing of the Bashir documentary. There's a suspected child abuse report filed with DCFS February 10th. You have the rebuttal taping and the DCFS interview on the 19th and 20th. You got all these things going on. Look when they say the alleged molestation takes place. Does it make sense to any of you? How can it? Their problem was what they did on the 19th and 20th. Ladies and gentlemen, remember when Janet was asked questions about the Brad Miller interview on the 16th of February where she praised Michael Jackson as a father figure, someone who came into their life, mentored her children, kind, considerate, and she said it was all true. I'll show you the transcript. She said it was all true. But then she got there on the 20th and said it was all scripted, and she said essentially the same things. They had to allege molestation after the 20th because of all the statements they'd been making before that date. It's purely a manipulative gesture. And you're going to see through it, I believe. At this point I'd like to go into some of the trial testimony of Gavin Arvizo, because I think you'll find it quite revealing, especially in light of what Mr. Zonen said to you today. “Did you ever go down there and drink any alcohol without Mr. Jackson being present? “No”. Under oath. “And did you have -- don't tell us what she said, just tell us - I want to know - did you have any conversations with her? “Yes. “Did you have any conversation with her about leaving? “Yes. “Did you want to leave, you personally? “Not really, because I was kinda having fun”. This is about leaving Neverland. Remember the police interview they showed you at the end of their case? “I was scared. I wanted to leave”. He's asked about the Bashir documentary where, as you know, he said nothing bad happens in Mr. Jackson's bed. Remember that? Well, as I said before, when all the furor starts and all the pressures from every side begin and the storm starts building is when they now claim molestation happens. He's asked about Mr. Jackson: “Did Mr. Jackson ever say anything to you about going to Brazil? “Yeah. “What did he say? “He said that we were going to go to Brazil, that we were going to have a good time. “Do you remember anything else Mr. Jackson said to you about the trip? “That he was going to come a week later after we got there”. Now, assuming that's true and assuming they are planning a trip to Brazil, all of them, why can't you cancel it? And wasn't it cancelled? The tickets weren't purchased. The trip was cancelled. Nobody went out of the country. The Arvizos went home. Where's the crime? Please tell me. Where's the crime? Is it a crime to plan a trip abroad and cancel it? If you listen to the prosecution, it was a crime when Mr. Jackson thought of having a press conference in Florida and then cancelled it. Big nefarious part of a conspiracy. Nonsense. “We would only drink with Michael”. “So -- all right. So when you came back from Calabasas and Mr. Jackson was there, did you drink with him? “Yes”. He keeps saying they only drank with Michael, but the witnesses have proven that's a lie. A lie under oath. Repeatedly he says it. Why? Because it's to their advantage to say it. And you're supposed to believe him beyond a reasonable doubt on alcohol. He's the only alleged victim with alcohol. This is Mr. Sneddon's questions: “And where were you when you saw Mr. Jackson coming up the stairs?” Do you remember the testimony of Star and Gavin about Mr. Jackson coming up the stairs of his room naked? I'd like you to look carefully what happens here. Mr. Sneddon: “And where were you when you saw Mr. Jackson coming up the stairs? “Me and my brother were laying on the bed. “Q. And what were you doing? “I think we were just laying there. “Q. All right. And Mr. Jackson came up the stairs. Did you notice anything? “Yeah, he was naked. “Q. When you say 'naked', what do you mean by that? “A. Like not clothes on. “Q. Did Mr. Jackson do or say anything at that point in time? “No, he just ran up and just got something and went back down”. “Q. By Mr. Sneddon: I'm sorry? “A. I think he just ran up there and got something and went back downstairs. “Q. Do you recall him saying anything at that point? “A. No. “Q. And what was your reaction to what you saw? “A. Nothing. It was just kind of like -- me and my brother were kind of like, 'Eeuuww', you know what I mean. “Q. Kind of like what? “'Eeuuww', like we never really saw a grown man, like, naked before”. Which, of course, is baloney, but.... Here we go again. At some point -- now, they're trying to make that look like some kind of a molester or something, that Mr. Jackson was in his room, came out of the bathroom, came up the stairs, saw them, and ran back down again. Nothing nefarious happened at all. “Q. At some point did you tell somebody else that you'd been drinking alcohol in connection with the fact that you had to collect your pee in that bottle? “Yes”. Now -- keep going. “Who was that? “It was my mom”. I want to present something to you. He admits at 4:00 in the morning telling his mother that he had wine. His mother admits on the stand that that happened, that she knew he had wine. They have an appointment at Kaiser Hospital that morning. Janet takes possession of the urine sample. Vinnie's driving. Now, does Gavin want that test if he's been drinking wine? Does Janet want that test if she knows he's been drinking wine? Do they really want to go to Kaiser and have him fail that test? What she came in here and said to you was, “I noticed suddenly urine was missing and we never had the test”. Do you believe her? Do you believe Gavin? Should you believe them? Is it possible the two of them didn't want to have the test? They wanted to make their appointment, because this was their treating physician. Do you necessarily believe Vinnie had something to do with this? Think about their lack of credibility, their lies under oath, their manipulative scams and schemes. Are you sure they're victims when it comes to this urine sample and lack of test? What do you think? Let me go back: “What did you say to your mother? “Well, I called her and I told her, 'Well, Mom, you know how Jesus drank juice? I mean, Jesus drank wine?' “And then she told me -- I don't know. I don't remember what exactly she said. She said like, 'Yeah'. “And then, like, I just tried to tell her that -- I'm not really too sure what happened in that conversation. I know I called my mom and I told her”. Their assumption is you must believe everything Janet said about suddenly finding urine missing, that they're victims. Why should you believe it? I know this: Michael Jackson's nowhere near any of this. I actually thought this was going to appear a little earlier, but we're back on that subject of Mr. Jackson going up naked, seeing them and running down the stairs. This is Mr. Sneddon: “And the time you said he was naked -- “Yes. “-- and I asked you whether or not he said anything to you at that particular point in time -- “Uh-huh”. “--and you said you didn't recall anything? “I do not. “Do you recall testifying at the grand jury? “Yes. “You testified there a couple of times, did you not? “Yes. “One time that I asked you questions and one time Mr. Zonen did? “Yes. “Would it refresh your recollection if I showed you what you said to the grand jury about that incident? “Probably”. And in other words, Mr. Sneddon didn't like the answer when he said nothing happened. Mr. Jackson did nothing untoward or improper. Mr. Jackson ran up the stairs, saw them, and ran down. That wasn't enough for Mr. Sneddon, so he wanted to give a transcript to his own witness to remind him of what he should say. Okay. So he does it. He does it, right in front of you: “Gavin, with regard to that portion of your testimony when you indicated to this jury just a little while ago that you had no recollection of what Mr. Jackson said when he walked in front of you naked; do you recall that? “Yes, well, he didn't really walk. He just came up the stairs. “He came up the stairs? “Yes. “And you saw that he was naked? “Yes. “And I asked you if you recall whether he said anything to you, do you recall that, in front of this jury here? “Yes. “And you said you did not? “Yes”. And it goes on and on. It's the story of this case. Anything to win.
The Court: All right. We'll stop for the afternoon. See you tomorrow morning at 8:30.
Adjourn Message: The proceedings adjourned at 2:30 p.m.
